>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT, THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL
HAS IT'S DAY ON CAPITOL HILL.
LAWMAKERS QUESTION SECRETARY OF
STATE KERRY'S DEFENSE OF THE
PACT.
>> Ifill: FAMILY PLANNING
FUNDING UNDER FIRE.
A COLORADO STATE PROGRAM THAT
WORKS, IS RUNNING OUT OF MONEY.
>> IT TRANSFORMS WOMEN'S LIVES.
HAVING A LONG-TERM BIRTH CONTROL
METHOD BUYS YOU TIME.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, 25 YEARS
AFTER THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT, THE NEXT
FRONTIERS OF UNIVERSAL ACCESS
FOR ALL AMERICANS.
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THREE TOP OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS MOUNTED
THEIR DEFENSE OF THE IRAN
NUCLEAR DEAL BEFORE A COMMITTEE
OF SKEPTICAL SENATORS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
CHALLENGED THOSE WHO WANT TO
SPIKE THE DEAL BY ASKING, "SO
WHAT'S YOUR PLAN, TOTALLY GO TO
WAR?"
WE'LL SHOW YOU SOME OF THE
EXCHANGES FROM THE HEARING RIGHT
AFTER THIS NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS FIRED ACROSS THE
BORDER FROM SYRIA INTO TURKEY
TODAY, KILLING ONE SOLDIER AND
WOUNDING TWO OTHERS.
TURKISH TROOPS RETURNED FIRE
NEAR THE TOWN OF KILIS, ON THE
BORDER WITH SYRIA.
IT'S A KEY TRANSPORT POINT FOR
BOTH ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS AND
EQUIPMENT.
IT COMES JUST DAYS AFTER A
SUICIDE ATTACK TARGETED YOUNG
POLITICAL ACTIVISTS IN A
SOUTHEASTERN TURKISH TOWN,
KILLING 32 PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: TURKEY HAS AGREED
TO LET THE U.S. START USING ONE
OF ITS AIR BASES, AT INCIRLIK,
FOR STRIKES AGAINST ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS IN SYRIA.
THE AGREEMENT, FIRST REPORTED BY
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL, CAME
AFTER MONTHS OF NEGOTIATIONS.
IT WILL LET THE U.S. USE THE
BASE FOR MANNED AND UNMANNED
PLANES, INCLUDING PREDATOR
DRONES.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THE U.S.,
THE DIRECTOR OF THE F.B.I. NOW
SAYS THE ISLAMIC STATE POSES A
GREATER THREAT TO THE U.S. THAN
AL QAEDA.
AT THE ASPEN SECURITY FORUM IN
ASPEN, COLORADO LAST NIGHT,
JAMES COMEY CITED THE MILITANTS'
YEAR OLD CAMPAIGN ON SOCIAL
MEDIA TO INSPIRE AMERICANS TO
RADICALIZE.
>> THE THREAT THAT ISIL
PRESENTS, THOSES TO THE UNITED
STATES IS VERY DIFFERENT IN
KIND, IN TYPE AND IN DEGREE THAN
AL QUAIDA.
ISIL IS NOT YOUR PARENTS'
IT'S A VERY DIFFERENT MODEL AND
BY HAV VIRTUE OF THE MODEL IT'SE
THREAT WE'RE WORRYING ABOUT IN
THE HOMELAND MOST OF ALL.
>> Ifill: COMEY ALSO NOTED THE
F.B.I. HAS ARRESTED A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF PEOPLE
OVER THE PAST EIGHT WEEKS WHO
WERE RADICALIZED.
AND HE SAID SOME OF THEM WERE
PLANNING ATTACKS AROUND THE JULY
FOURTH HOLIDAY.
>> Woodruff: MORE DETAILS
EMERGED IN THE CASE OF SANDRA
BLAND, A BLACK WOMAN WHO WAS
FOUND HANGING IN A TEXAS JAIL
CELL LAST WEEK.
PROSECUTORS DELIVERED RESULTS
FROM HER AUTOPSY, SAYING HER
INJURIES WERE CONSISTENT WITH
SUICIDE, NOT VIOLENT HOMICIDE.
WALLER COUNTY PROSECUTOR WARREN
DIEPRAAM SPOKE TODAY IN
HEMPTSTEAD, TEXAS.
>> THE HANDS ARE SIGNIFICANT.
IN A VIOLENT HOMICIDE OR A
MURDER WHERE ONE PERSON TAKES
ANOTHER PERSON'S LIFE, IT IS
TYPICAL, ALTHOUGH NOT IN ALL
CASES, BUT IT IS TYPICAL TO SEE
SOME SORT OF INJURIES ON THE
PERSON'S HANDS, DEFENSIVE
INJURIES.
THEY FOUND NO EVIDENCE
WHATSOEVER OF ANY INJURIES ON
MS. BLAND'S HANDS.
>> Woodruff: BLAND ALSO HAD A
SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF MARIJUANA
IN HER SYSTEM, ACCORDING TO
PRELIMINARY RESULTS OF TESTING.
AUTHORITIES SAID IT WAS UNCLEAR
WHEN OR HOW THE MARIJUANA WAS
INGESTED.
>> Ifill: THE REPUBLICAN-LED
HOUSE TODAY APPROVED A BILL THAT
WOULD CRACK DOWN ON
SO-CALLED SANCTUARY CITIES THAT
PROTECT RESIDENTS FROM FEDERAL
IMMIGRATION AUTHORITIES.
IT COMES IN THE WAKE OF THE
SHOOTING DEATH OF A CALIFORNIA
WOMAN, ALLEGEDLY BY AN ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANT WITH A LONG CRIMINAL
RECORD WHO'D ALREADY BEEN
DEPORTED MULTIPLE TIMES.
THE LEGISLATION CUTS OFF FEDERAL
FUNDS FOR CITIES THAT DON'T
DEPORT UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS.
BUT HOUSE LEADERS DIFFER ON HOW
TO GO ABOUT SOLVING THE ISSUE.
>> SOME DECIDE TO IGNORE OUR
LAWS AND NOT ONLY IS THAT WRONG,
BUT IT'S CLEARLY DANGEROUS AS
WELL.
THE HOUSE IS ACTING TODAY TO PUT
STATE AND LOCAL OFFICIALS ON
NOTICE THAT WE'LL NO LONGER
ALLOW THEM TO DECIDE HOW AND
WHEN TO ENFORCE OUR NATION'S
LAWS.
>> WE HAVE TO LOOK AT HOW DID
THIS PERSON COME INTO POSSESSION
IN A STATE WHERE HE'S HAVING A
GUN AS A CONVICTED FELON, WITH
VERY SERIOUS QUESTIONS.
>> Ifill: THE BILL FACES AN
UNCERTAIN FATE IN THE SENATE.
IN A STATEMENT, THE WHITE HOUSE
PROMISED A VETO SHOULD THE
LEGISLATION REACH THE
PRESIDENT'S DESK.
>> Woodruff: EUROPEAN REGULATORS
OPENED AN ANTITRUST CASE AGAINST
SIX MAJOR HOLLYWOOD MOVIE
STUDIOS AND A BRITISH SATELLITE
BROADCASTER TODAY.
OFFICIALS SAID THE STUDIOS ARE
ILLEGALLY BLOCKING CONSUMERS IN
MOST OF EUROPE FROM WATCHING
U.S. MOVIES, SHOWS AND OTHER
CONTENT BECAUSE OF CONTRACTS
THEY MADE WITH SKY UK.
THE SIX STUDIOS ARE DISNEY, NBC
UNIVERSAL, PARAMOUNT, SONY, 20TH
CENTURY FOX, AND WARNER
BROTHERS.
>> Ifill: GREECE IS ONE STEP
CLOSER TO RECEIVING A NEW
BAOUT,IL AFTER ITS PARLIAMENT
APPROVED CRUCIAL BANKING AND
JUDICIARY REFORMS.
THE VOTE CAME IN THE EARLY HOURS
OF THE MORNING, SURVIVING A
REVOLT FROM A REBEL GROUP OF
LEFT-WING SYRIZA LAWMAKERS.
THAT PAVES THE WAY FOR THE DEBT-
STRICKEN COUNTRY TO BEGIN TALKS
WITH ITS EUROPEAN CREDITORS OVER
A THIRD BAILOUT, VALUED AT $93
BILLION DOLLARS.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER ROUND OF
LACKLUSTER CORPORATE EARNINGS
REPORTS PUSHED STOCKS LOWER ON
WALL STREET TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 119 POINTS TO CLOSE JUST
UNDER 17,732.
THE NASDAQ FELL 25 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED 12.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE IRAN NULEAR DEAL COMES UNDER
FIRE ON CAPITOL HILL.
AN UNCERTAIN FUTURE FOR A BIRTH
CONTROL PROGRAM IN COLORADO.
AND MUCH MORE.
>> Ifill: WITH NEARLY TWO MONTHS
LEFT FOR CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW,
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION CAME
UNDER FIRE TODAY AS IT BEGAN
IT'S PUBLIC PUSH TO SELL THE
NUCLEAR DEAL WITH IRAN ON
CAPITOL HILL.
>> NOT UNLIKE A HOTEL GUEST THAT
LEAVES ONLY WITH A HOTEL
BATHROBE ON IT'S BACK, I BELIEVE
YOU'VE BEEN FLEECED.
>> Ifill: THERE WERE TESTY
EXCHANGES, AND BLUNT TALK, AS
CRITICS OF THE IRAN NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT CONFRONTED SECRETARY
OF STATE JOHN KERRY FOR THE
FIRST TIME SINCE THE DEAL WAS
STRUCK LAST WEEK.
SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN BOB CORKER:
>> WE'VE BEEN THROUGH AN
INCREDIBLE JOURNEY, WE BEGAN 20
MONTHS OR SO AGO WITH A COUNTRY
THAT WAS A ROGUE NATION THAT HAD
A BOOT ON ITS NECK AND OUR GOAL
WAS TO DISMANTLE THEIR PROGRAM.
WE'VE ENDED UP IN A SITUATION
WHERE THE DEAL THAT'S ON THE
TABLE BASICALLY CODIFIES THE
INDUSTRIALIZATION OF THEIR
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: BUT THE COMMITTEE'S
TOP DEMOCRAT, MARYLAND'S BEN
CARDIN, WHO SAID HE'D NOT YET
MADE A DECISION ON THE
AGREEMENT, SAID PROGRESS HAD
BEEN MADE.
>> THERE WERE MANY RUMORS DURING
THE LAST COUPLE MONTHOF WS HAT
WAS GOING TO BE IN THIS
AGREEMENT AND HOW IT WAS GOING
TO BE WEAKENED FROM THE APRIL
FRAMEWORK THAT IN FACT HAVE BEEN
STRENGTHENED SINCE THE APRIL
FRAMEWORK.
>> Ifill: A 60-DAY PERIOD FOR
CONGRESS TO APPROVE OR REJECT
THE DEAL BEGAN MONDAY; CORKER
SAID HE MIGHT TRY TO EXTEND THAT
REVIEW PERIOD, WHICH WOULD CURB
TEHRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM IN
RETURN FOR EASING SANCTIONS.
FLORIDA REPUBLICAN MARCO RUBIO,
WHO'S RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT,
SAID THAT EVEN IF THE DEAL
SURVIVES IN CONGRESS, IT COULD
WELL BE ROLLED BACK IN THE NEXT
ADMINISTRATION.
>> THE IRANIAN REGIME SHOULD
KNOW THIS IS YOUR DEAL NEXT
PRESIDENT UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO
SUPPORT IT MAJORITY OF CONGRESS
AND PEOPLE DON'T SUPPORT IT.
CAN GO AWAY THE DAY PRESIDENT
OBAMA LEAVES OFFICE.
>> Ifill: BEYOND CAPITOL HILL,
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION ALREADY
ALSO FACES DETERMINED CRITICS.
AN ESTIMATED 10,000 PEOPLE
RALLIED AGAINST THE AGREEMENT IN
NEW YORK CITY LAST NIGHT.
AND SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS HAVE
TAKEN TO THE AIRWAVES.
TAKEN TO THE AIRWAVES. >>
CONGRESS SHOULD REJECT A
BAD
>>CONGRESS SHOULD
REJECT A BAD DEAL.
DEAL.
WE NEED A BETTER DEAL.
WE NEED A BETTER DEAL. >>
Ifill: TODAY SECRETARY KERRY
>> Ifill: TODAY SECRETARY
KERRY TODAY FOUGHT BACK.
TODAY FOUGHT BACK.
>> LET ME UNDERSCORE, THE
ALTERNATIVE TO THE DEAL THAT
WE
WE HAVE REACHED IS NOT WHAT
I'VE
HAVE REACHED IS NOT WHAT I'VE
SEEN SOME ADS ON TV
SUGGESTING
SUGGESTING DISINGENUOUSLY.
DISINGENUOUSLY. IT ISN'T
A "BETTER DEAL," SOME
IT ISN'T A "BETTER DEAL,"
SOME SORT OF UNICORN
ARRANGEMENT
SORT OF UNICORN ARRANGEMENT
INVOLVING IRAN'S COMPLETE
CAPITULATION.
CAPITULATION. THAT IS
A FANTASY, PLAIN AND
THAT IS A FANTASY, PLAIN AND
SIMPLE, AND OUR INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY WILL TELL YOU
THAT.
COMMUNITY WILL TELL YOU THAT.
>> Ifill: THE CONSEQUENCES
OF
>> Ifill: THE CONSEQUENCES OF
CONGRESSIONAL REJECTION, HE
CONGRESSIONAL REJECTION,
HE SAID, WOULD BE GRAVE.
SAID, WOULD BE GRAVE. >> THE
RESULT WILL BE THE UNITED
>> THE RESULT WILL BE THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA WALKING
AWAY
STATES OF AMERICA WALKING
AWAY FROM EVERY ONE OF THE
FROM EVERY ONE OF THE
RESTRICTIONS THAT WE HAVE
ACHIEVED, AND A GREAT BIG
GREEN
GREEN LIGHT FOR IRAN TO DOUBLE
THE
LIGHT FOR IRAN TO DOUBLE THE
PACE OF ITS URANIUM
ENRICHMENT.
ENRICHMENT. >> Ifill: KERRY WAS
JOINED BY
>> Ifill: KERRY WAS JOINED BY
ENERGY SECRETARY ERNEST
MONIZ
ENERGY SECRETARY ERNEST MONIZ
AND TREASURY SECRETARY JACOB
LEW, WHO SAID WALKING AWAY
FROM
FROM THE DEAL WOULD POSE A
WIDER
THE DEAL WOULD POSE A
WIDER DIPLOMATIC PROBLEM.
DIPLOMATIC PROBLEM. >>
EVEN IF ONE BELEIVED THAT
>> EVEN IF ONE BELEIVED THAT
>> WE WOULD BE LEFT WITH
NEITHER
NEITHER A NUCLEAR DEAL OR
EFFECTIVE
A NUCLEAR DEAL OR
EFFECTIVE SANCTIONS.
SANCTIONS.
>> Ifill: SOME LIKE IDAHO
NUCLEAR DEAL NOR EFFECTIVE
NUCLEAR DEAL NOR EFFECTIVE >>
Ifill: BUT SOME, LIKE IDAHO
>> Ifill: BUT SOME, LIKE
IDAHO REPUBLICAN JAMES RISCH,
DOUBTED
REPUBLICAN JAMES RISCH,
DOUBTED WHETHER IRAN WOULD KEEP
THE
WHETHER IRAN WOULD KEEP
THE PROMISES IT MADE.
PROMISES IT MADE. >> WITH
ALL DUE RESPECT, YOU
>> WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, YOU
GUYS HAVE BEEN BAMBOOZLED
AND
GUYS HAVE BEEN BAMBOOZLED AND
AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
PAY
AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO PAY FOR THAT.
FOR THAT. >> Ifill: BUT
DEMOCRAT TOM UDALL
>> Ifill: BUT DEMOCRAT TOM
UDALL PUSHED MONIZ FOR
CLARIFICATION
PUSHED MONIZ FOR
CLARIFICATION ON INSPECTIONS BY
THE
ON INSPECTIONS BY THE
INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY CALLED FOR IN THE
DEAL.
DEAL. >> WE'LL HAVE CONTAINMENT
AND
>> WE'LL HAVE CONTAINMENT AND
SURVEILLANCE FOR 20 YEARS OF
ALL
ALL OF THE SENSITIVE PARTS OF
EVERY
OF THE SENSITIVE PARTS OF
EVERY MACHINE THAT THEY
MAKE.
MACHINE THAT THEY MAKE. >>
SO PEOPLE THAT HAVE USED THE
>> SO PEOPLE THAT HAVE USED
THE ANALOGY SO LIKE IN A DRUG
CRIME
ANALOGY SO LIKE IN A DRUG
CRIME YOU FLUSH IT DOWN A TOILET
AND
YOU FLUSH IT DOWN A TOILET
AND ITS GONE AND WE WONT BE ABLE
TO
ITS GONE AND WE WONT BE ABLE
TO FIND IT, THAT'S IN FACT
BEEN
FIND IT, THAT'S IN FACT
BEEN PROVEN OUT HASN'T IT?
PROVEN OUT HASN'T IT? >> IF
THEY TRY THAT WE'LL FIND
>> IF THEY TRY THAT
WE'LL FIND IT.
IT.
>> Ifill: ALSO AT ISSUE--
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE
INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY AND IRAN THAT WOULD
ACCOUNT FOR IRAN'S PAST
MILITARY
MILITARY NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES.
NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES.
REPUBLICANS HAVE CALLED
THESE
REPUBLICANS HAVE CALLED THESE
SIDE DEALS, AND DEMANDED
THAT
SIDE DEALS, AND DEMANDED THAT
THE CONTENT OF THOSE
AGREEMENTS
AGREEMENTS BE SHARED WITH
CONGRESS.
BE SHARED WITH CONGRESS. ON
HIS WAY OUT OF THE HEARING,
ON HIS WAY OUT OF THE
HEARING, KERRY SAID THEY WERE
STANDARD
KERRY SAID THEY WERE
STANDARD ARRANGEMENTS.
ARRANGEMENTS. >> THERE
ARE NO SIDE DEALS, THE
>> THERE ARE NO SIDE DEALS,
THE I.A.E.A. HAS A REGULAR
PROCESS.
I.A.E.A. HAS A REGULAR
PROCESS. >> Ifill: IN IRAN,
MEANWHILE,
>> Ifill: IN IRAN, MEANWHILE,
PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI WAS
ALSO ON A MISSION TO SELL
THE
ALSO ON A MISSION TO SELL THE
AGREEMENT, SAYING IN A
NATIONAL
NATIONAL TV ADDRESS THAT ITS
SENDS "THE
TV ADDRESS THAT ITS SENDS
"THE MESSAGE TO THE WORLD THAT
THE
MESSAGE TO THE WORLD THAT THE
MOST DIFFICULT AND COMPLEX
INTERNATIONAL ISSUES CAN BE
RESOLVED THROUGH
NEGOTIATIONS."
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A COLORADO
BIRTH CONTROL PROGRAM IS
LOSING
LOSING ITS FUNDING DESPITE A
REMARKABLE
ITS FUNDING DESPITE A
REMARKABLE TRACK RECORD.
TRACK RECORD. SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT MARY
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MARY
MACCARTHY HAS OUR REPORT
FROM
MACCARTHY HAS OUR
REPORT FROM DENVER.
DENVER. >> Reporter:
VICTORIA GARCIA WAS
>> Reporter: VICTORIA GARCIA
WAS JUST 22, WITH BIG CAREER
PLANS,
JUST 22, WITH BIG CAREER
PLANS, WHEN SHE FOUND OUT SHE
WAS
WHEN SHE FOUND OUT
SHE WAS PREGNANT.
PREGNANT. THE NEWS, SHE
SAID, WAS JOLTING.
THE NEWS, SHE SAID, WAS
JOLTING. >> MOTHERHOOD WASN'T A
STAGE IN
>> MOTHERHOOD WASN'T A STAGE
IN MY LIFE THAT I WAS READY
FOR.
MY LIFE THAT I WAS READY
FOR. I WAS IN COLLEGE.
I WAS IN COLLEGE. I WAS
FOCUSED ON SCHOOL AND
I WAS FOCUSED ON SCHOOL
AND GETTING MY DEGREE.
GETTING MY DEGREE. >>
Reporter: GARCIA SAID SHE
HAD
>> Reporter: GARCIA SAID SHE
HAD WANTED TO USE A
LONG-ACTING
WANTED TO USE A LONG-ACTING
BIRTH CONTROL METHOD, BUT
COULDN'T AFFORD IT.
COULDN'T AFFORD IT. >> I
WAS IN COLLEGE AT THE TIME
>> I WAS IN COLLEGE AT THE
TIME WHEN YOU'RE BARELY MAKING
ENDS
WHEN YOU'RE BARELY MAKING
ENDS MEET WITH FOOD AND
RENT.
MEET WITH FOOD AND RENT. AND
AN I.U.D. OR IMPLANT COSTS
AND AN I.U.D. OR
IMPLANT COSTS
$500 OUT OF POCKET.
IT'S OUTRAGEOUS.
IT'S TOO MUCH.
IT'S TOO MUCH. >>
Reporter: GARCIA HAD THE
>> Reporter: GARCIA HAD THE
BABY: A SON, LIAM, AND STILL
MANAGED TO GRADUATE FROM
COLLEGE.
COLLEGE. SHE CREDITS
HER MOTHER AND
SHE CREDITS HER MOTHER AND
HUSBAND FOR HELPING HER.
HUSBAND FOR HELPING HER. BUT
THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE SHE
BUT THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE
SHE SAYS THAT HAS BEEN CRITICAL
FOR
SAYS THAT HAS BEEN
CRITICAL FOR HER SUCCESS.
HER SUCCESS. >> THE
DAY I GOT MY I.U.D.
>> THE DAY I GOT MY I.U.D.
PLACED, THE MIDWIFE HANDED
ME
PLACED, THE MIDWIFE HANDED ME
THIS CARD AND SAID
"VICTORIA,
THIS CARD AND SAID "VICTORIA,
YOU DON'T HAVE TO COME BACK
YOU DON'T HAVE TO COME
BACK UNTIL 2022."
UNTIL 2022."
THIS I.U.D. HAS BEEN LIFE
CHANGING.
IT REALLY HAS.
IT REALLY HAS. >> Reporter:
IT MEANS FREEDOM.
>> Reporter: IT MEANS
FREEDOM. >> OH MY GOSH, YES.
>> OH MY GOSH, YES. >>
Reporter: GARCIA RECEIVED
HER
>> Reporter: GARCIA RECEIVED
HER I.U.D. THROUGH A PROGRAM
CALLED
I.U.D. THROUGH A PROGRAM
CALLED THE COLORADO FAMILY
PLANNING
THE COLORADO FAMILY
PLANNING INITIATIVE.
INITIATIVE. IT IS A
PRIVATELY FUNDED EFFORT
IT IS A PRIVATELY FUNDED
EFFORT TO GIVE TEENS AND POOR
WOMEN
TO GIVE TEENS AND POOR WOMEN
FREE ACCESS TO LONG-ACTING
REVERSIBLE CONTRACEPTION.
REVERSIBLE CONTRACEPTION. THE
PROGRAM HAS HAD REMARKABLE
THE PROGRAM HAS HAD
REMARKABLE SUCCESS SINCE IT
BEGAN SIX YEARS
SUCCESS SINCE IT
BEGAN SIX YEARS AGO.
AGO. WHILE NATIONWIDE,
UNINTENDED
WHILE NATIONWIDE, UNINTENDED
TEEN PREGNANCIES HAVE DROPPED
BY
BY 20%, IN COLORADO THEY
HAVE
20%, IN COLORADO THEY HAVE
DROPPED BY 39%, AND THE
ABORTION
ABORTION RATE FOR TEENS HAS
DROPPED BY
RATE FOR TEENS HAS
DROPPED BY 42%.
42%. BUT THE FOUNDATION
MONEY FOR THE
BUT THE FOUNDATION MONEY FOR
THE INITIATIVE WAS DUE TO END
IN
INITIATIVE WAS DUE TO END IN
JUNE, SO ADVOCATES WENT TO
THE
THE STATE LEGISLATURE ASKING
FOR
STATE LEGISLATURE ASKING FOR
$5 MILLION A YEAR TO
CONTINUE
$5 MILLION A YEAR
TO CONTINUE IT.
IT. REPUBLICANS
WHO CONTROL THE
REPUBLICANS WHO CONTROL
THE SENATE SAID NO.
SENATE SAID NO. >> IT
PUZZLES ME THAT THEY
>> IT PUZZLES ME THAT THEY
INSIST THEY NEED THE PUBLIC
FUNDS WHEN IT'S ACTUALLY
AVAILABLE THROUGH THE
INSURANCE
INSURANCE SYSTEM.
SYSTEM. >> Reporter:
REPUBLICAN STATE
>> Reporter: REPUBLICAN STATE
SENATOR KEVIN LUNDBERG SAYS
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT,
ACT, INSURANCE COMPANIES MUST
OFFER
INSURANCE COMPANIES MUST
OFFER FREE BIRTH CONTROL SO
STATE
FREE BIRTH CONTROL SO
STATE MONEY ISN'T NEEDED.
MONEY ISN'T NEEDED. HE ALSO
SAYS STATE FUNDING CAN'T
HE ALSO SAYS STATE FUNDING
CAN'T BE USED FOR ANY DEVICE
THAT MAY
BE USED FOR ANY DEVICE THAT
MAY CAUSE AN ABORTION.
CAUSE AN ABORTION. >> THE
USE OF THE I.U.D IN THE
>> THE USE OF THE I.U.D IN
THE EYES OF MANY PEOPLE IS
AN
EYES OF MANY PEOPLE IS AN
ABORTIFACIENT.
ABORTIFACIENT. AND
COLORADO LAW DOESN'T ALLOW
AND COLORADO LAW DOESN'T
ALLOW STATE NDINFUG FOR ANY
PURPOSES
STATE NDINFUG FOR ANY
PURPOSES OF THAT SORT.
OF THAT SORT. >> WE HAVE
TWO TYPES OF I.U.D.S
>> WE HAVE TWO TYPES OF
I.U.D.S AND A THIRD IS ABOUT TO
COME
AND A THIRD IS
ABOUT TO COME OUT.
OUT.
>> Reporter: BUT NURSE
PRACTITIONER SUSAN KEITHLEY,
WITH THE TRI-COUNTY HEALTH
CLINICS, EXPLAINED THAT AN
I.U.D. DOESN'T CAUSE AN
ABORTION.
ABORTION. IT PREVENTS
FERTILIZATION, AND
IT PREVENTS FERTILIZATION,
AND IT DOES SO WITH
REMARKABLE
IT DOES SO WITH
REMARKABLE EFFECTIVENESS.
EFFECTIVENESS. >> THE
RESEARCH THAT'S OUT THERE
>> THE RESEARCH THAT'S OUT
THERE ON THE LONG-ACTING
REVERSIBLE
ON THE LONG-ACTING REVERSIBLE
CONTRACEPTIVES IS THAT
THEY'RE
THEY'RE 99% EFFECTIVE.
99% EFFECTIVE. SO PREGNANCY
RATES WITH OUR LONG
SO PREGNANCY RATES WITH OUR
LONG ACTING CONTRACEPTIVES ARE
LESS
ACTING CONTRACEPTIVES
ARE LESS THAN 1%.
THAN 1%. >> Reporter:
AND THESE ARE NOT
>> Reporter: AND THESE ARE
NOT YOUR MOTHER'S I.U.D.s.
YOUR MOTHER'S I.U.D.s.
TODAY'S VERSIONS ARE FAR
DIFFERENT THAN THE ONES THAT
CAUSED DISEASE AND EVEN
INFERTILITY IN THE 1970S.
LAST FALL, THE AMERICAN
ACADEMY
ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS CITED
THEIR
OF PEDIATRICS CITED THEIR
"EFFICACY, SAFETY AND EASE
OF
"EFFICACY, SAFETY AND EASE OF
USE" AND SAID THEY SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED A "FIRST LINE"
OPTION
OPTION FOR ADOLESCENTS.
FOR ADOLESCENTS. BUT THEY
ARE EXPENSIVE AND EVEN
BUT THEY ARE EXPENSIVE AND
EVEN AFTER PASSAGE OF THE ACA,
MANY
AFTER PASSAGE OF THE ACA,
MANY INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE
STILL
INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE STILL
CHARGING FOR SOME METHODS OF
CHARGING FOR SOME METHODS
OF BIRTH CONTROL.
BIRTH CONTROL. AND SOME
WOMEN, IT'S ESTIMATED
AND SOME WOMEN, IT'S
ESTIMATED ABOUT 5%, STILL DON'T
HAVE
ABOUT 5%, STILL DON'T HAVE
INSURANCE BECAUSE THEY CAN'T
AFFORD IT YET THEY DON'T
QUALIFY
QUALIFY FOR MEDICAID.
FOR MEDICAID. THAT'S
THE CASE FOR COLLEGE
THAT'S THE CASE FOR COLLEGE
STUDENT SHELBY INGLE, WHO
CAME
CAME TO TRI-COUNTY HEALTH TWO
YEARS
TO TRI-COUNTY HEALTH
TWO YEARS AGO.
AGO. IF YOU HAD COME
IN AND THEY SAID
IF YOU HAD COME IN AND THEY
SAID THERE WAS A COST OF $400,
WOULD
THERE WAS A COST OF $400,
WOULD YOU HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
AFFORD IT?
YOU HAVE BEEN ABLE TO AFFORD
IT? >> THERE'S NO WAY.
>> THERE'S NO WAY. I WAS
WORKING AT A PAPA MURPHY'S
I WAS WORKING AT A PAPA
MURPHY'S MAKING MINIMUM
WAGE.
MAKING MINIMUM WAGE. THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN A MONTH'S
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN A
MONTH'S PAYCHECK ALMOST.
PAYCHECK ALMOST. >>
Reporter: NURSE KEITHLEY IS
>> Reporter: NURSE KEITHLEY
IS DISAPPOINTED WITH THE
DISAPPOINTED WITH THE
LEGISLATURE'S DECISION AND
SAYS
SAYS HER CLINIC CAN'T AFFORD TO
OFFER
HER CLINIC CAN'T AFFORD TO
OFFER I.U.D.s WITHOUT THE
EXTRA
I.U.D.s WITHOUT THE EXTRA
FUNDING.
FUNDING. >> I THINK
IT'S GOING TO BE A
>> I THINK IT'S GOING TO
BE A TOUGH YEAR AHEAD.
TOUGH YEAR AHEAD. ESPECIALLY
WITH OUR CLIENTS WHO
ESPECIALLY WITH OUR CLIENTS
WHO HAVE BENEFITED FROM THE
PROGRAM
HAVE BENEFITED FROM THE
PROGRAM AND ARE DUE TO HAVE
THEIR
AND ARE DUE TO HAVE THEIR
DEVICES REPLACED OR RENEWED.
WHEN THEY COME IN, WE'RE
GOING
GOING TO HAVE TO SAY "I'M SO
HAPPY
TO HAVE TO SAY "I'M SO HAPPY
IT'S WORKED SO WELL FOR YOU,
BUT
BUT I'M SORRY, WE ONLY HAVE
THESE
I'M SORRY, WE ONLY HAVE THESE
LIMITED OPTIONS FOR YOU NOW.
>> Reporter: HAVE YOU BEEN
SURPRISED AT THE SUCCESS?
>> I WAS SURPRISED.
>> I WAS SURPRISED. >>
Reporter: DR. LARRY WOLK
>> Reporter: DR. LARRY WOLK
HEADS THE COLORADO DEPARTMENT
OF
HEADS THE COLORADO
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
PUBLIC HEALTH. HE SAYS
IT'S SHORT-SIGHTED FOR
HE SAYS IT'S SHORT-SIGHTED
FOR LAWMAKERS TO FOCUS ON THE
COST,
LAWMAKERS TO FOCUS ON THE
COST, WHEN THEY SHOULD BE
LOOKING AT
WHEN THEY SHOULD BE
LOOKING AT THE BENEFITS.
THE BENEFITS. >> WE HAVE
DATA THAT SAYS YOUNG
>> WE HAVE DATA THAT SAYS
YOUNG WOMEN WHO HAVE
UNINTENDED
WOMEN WHO HAVE UNINTENDED
PREGNANCIES HAVE A HIGHER
RISK
RISK OF SUFFERING MEDICAL
OF SUFFERING MEDICAL
COMPLICATIONS, THEY HAVE A
HIGHER RISK FOR LIVING IN
POVERTY.
POVERTY. THE CHILDREN
BORN TO THESE WOMEN
THE CHILDREN BORN TO THESE
WOMEN HAVE A HIGHER RISK FOR
MEDICAL
HAVE A HIGHER RISK FOR
MEDICAL CONDITIONS.
CONDITIONS. NOT TO
MENTION THE COST TO THE
NOT TO MENTION THE COST TO
THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS,
PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,
WHETHER IT'S MEDICAID OR
FOOD
WHETHER IT'S MEDICAID
OR FOOD STAMPS OR WIC.
STAMPS OR WIC. WE'VE
DEMONSTRATED THERE'S BEEN
WE'VE DEMONSTRATED THERE'S
BEEN A DECREASE IN THE AMOUNT
OF
A DECREASE IN THE AMOUNT OF
PUBLIC SERVICES, AS A RESULT
OF
OF MAKING THESE I.U.D.S AND
MAKING THESE I.U.D.S AND
IMPLANTS AVAILABLE.
IMPLANTS AVAILABLE. >>
IF THE PROMOTERS OF THIS
>> IF THE PROMOTERS OF THIS
INITIATIVE ARE CONVINCED
THAT
INITIATIVE ARE CONVINCED THAT
THIS HAS CONTINUE, THAT I
WOULD
WOULD URGE THEM TO DO WHAT
100,000,
URGE THEM TO DO WHAT 100,000,
WELL THOUSANDS OF OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS DO: LOOK FOR
ORGANIZATIONS DO: LOOK
FOR PRIVATE MONEY.
PRIVATE MONEY. THEY
SHOULD DO THE SAME THING.
THEY SHOULD DO THE SAME
THING. >> Reporter: THAT
FRUSTRATES
>> Reporter: THAT FRUSTRATES
VICTORIA GARCIA WHO SAYS
HELPING
HELPING POOR YOUNG WOMEN WITH
LONG-
POOR YOUNG WOMEN WITH LONG-
ACTING BIRTH CONTROL SHOULD
BE
BE AN OBLIGATION OF THE
STATE.
AN OBLIGATION OF THE STATE.
>> IT TRANSFORMS WOMEN'S
LIVES.
LIVES. HAVING A LONG-TERM BIRTH
CONTROL
HAVING A LONG-TERM BIRTH
CONTROL METHOD BUYS YOU
TIME.
METHOD BUYS YOU TIME. TIME
TO FINISH YOUR GOALS.
TIME TO FINISH YOUR GOALS.
TIME TO FINISH YOUR SCHOOL,
IF
IF THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
>> Reporter: ADVOCATES SAY
THEY'RE TRYING TO FIND
PRIVATE
PRIVATE FUNDING TO CONTINUE THE
PROGRAM
FUNDING TO CONTINUE THE
PROGRAM INTO THE NEW YEAR, BUT
THEN THEY
INTO THE NEW YEAR, BUT THEN
THEY WILL ONCE AGAIN LOBBY
THE
WILL ONCE AGAIN LOBBY THE
LEGISLATURE FOR A LONG-TERM
FINANCIAL SOLUTION.
FINANCIAL SOLUTION. FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M MARY
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
MARY MACCARTHY IN DENVER.
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD
ON THE NEWSHOUR:
NEWSHOUR: MAKING SENSE
OF TRENDS BEFORE
MAKING SENSE OF TRENDS
BEFORE THEY TAKE OFF.
THEY TAKE OFF. A CRITICALLY
ACCLAIMED NEW BOOK
A CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED NEW
BOOK ON BEING BLACK IN
AMERICA.
ON BEING BLACK IN AMERICA.
AND, CHEF ALICE WATERS ON
INSPIRING YOUNG PEOPLE TO
COOK.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK MARKS
THE 25th ANNIVERSARY OF A
MILESTONE
25th ANNIVERSARY OF A
MILESTONE CIVIL RIGHTS BILL
SIGNED INTO
CIVIL RIGHTS BILL SIGNED INTO
LAW: THE ADA, OR AMERICANS
WITH
WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
DISABILITIES ACT. ITS
LEGACY CONTINUES TO GROW,
ITS LEGACY CONTINUES TO GROW,
YET FORMIDABLE PROBLEMS AND
DISCREPANCIES REMAIN A DAILY
PART OF LIFE IN THE U.S.
PART OF LIFE IN THE U.S. WE
EXPLORE THOSE CHALLENGES,
BUT
WE EXPLORE THOSE CHALLENGES,
BUT FIRST, A BIT OF BACKGROUND
ON
FIRST, A BIT OF BACKGROUND ON
SOME OF THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
>> WITH TODAY'S SIGNING OF
THE
THE LANDMARK AMERICANS' WITH
LANDMARK AMERICANS' WITH
DISABILITIES ACT EVERY MAN,
WOMAN, AND CHILD WITH A
DISABILITY CAN NOW PASS
THROUGH
THROUGH ONCE CLOSED DOORS INTO A
BRIGHT
ONCE CLOSED DOORS INTO A
BRIGHT NEW ERA OF EQUALITY,
NEW ERA OF EQUALITY,
INDEPENDENCE, AND FREEDOM.
INDEPENDENCE, AND FREEDOM. >>
Woodruff: ON A CLEAR SUMMER
>> Woodruff: ON A CLEAR
SUMMER DAY 25 YEARS AGO
PRESIDENT
DAY 25 YEARS AGO PRESIDENT
GEORGE H.W. BUSH SIGNED INTO
LAW
LAW EQUAL PROTECTION OF CIVIL
RIGHTS
EQUAL PROTECTION OF CIVIL
RIGHTS FOR AMERICANS WITH A
DISABILITY.
FOR AMERICANS WITH A
DISABILITY. THE LANDMARK BILL
PROHIBITS
THE LANDMARK BILL PROHIBITS
EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION
AND
EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION AND
GUARANTEES ACCESS TO PUBLIC
PLACES: RESTAURANTS, HOTELS
AND
AND MOST CRITICALLY, TO
PUBLIC
MOST CRITICALLY, TO
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.
TRANSPORTATION. OVER 56
MILLIONS AMERICANS HAVE
OVER 56 MILLIONS AMERICANS
HAVE SOME TYPE OF
DISABILITY.
SOME TYPE OF DISABILITY.
OVER HALF OF THEM-- A SEVERE
OVER HALF OF THEM-- A
SEVERE DISABILITY.
DISABILITY. THE LAW
HAS SUCCEEDED IN MANY
THE LAW HAS SUCCEEDED
IN MANY WAYS.
WAYS.
IT'S PUT RAMPS ON PUBLIC
BUILDINGS, CREATED ACCESS TO
HEALTH CARE, FOUGHT HOUSING
DISCRIMINATION, AND OPENED
IMPORTANT SCHOOL DOORS.
IMPORTANT SCHOOL DOORS. FRED
WEINER IS AN ASSISTANT VICE
FRED WEINER IS AN ASSISTANT
VICE PRESIDENT AT GALLAUDET
PRESIDENT AT GALLAUDET
UNIVERSITY.
FOR A LONG TIME, THE ONLY
COLLEGE FOR STUDENTS WHO ARE
COLLEGE FOR STUDENTS WHO
ARE HEARING IMPAIRED.
HEARING IMPAIRED. HE SAID
ACCESS TO EDUCATION HAS
HE SAID ACCESS TO EDUCATION
HAS GREATLY EXPANDED SINCE THE
ADA:
GREATLY EXPANDED SINCE THE
ADA: >> PEOPLE WHO ARE DEAF AND
HARD
>> PEOPLE WHO ARE DEAF AND
HARD OF HEARING HAVE MORE PLACES
TO
OF HEARING HAVE MORE PLACES
TO O, TGHEY CAN SELECT A
PUBLIC
O, TGHEY CAN SELECT A PUBLIC
COLLEGE OR A PRIVATE
COLLEGE.
COLLEGE OR A PRIVATE COLLEGE.
THEY CAN PICK A VARIETY OF
THEY CAN PICK A VARIETY
OF EDUCATIONAL SETTINGS.
EDUCATIONAL SETTINGS. AND
SO IT'S NOT JUST ACCESS TO
AND SO IT'S NOT JUST ACCESS
TO THE CLASSROOM, BUT IT'S
LEARNING
THE CLASSROOM, BUT IT'S
LEARNING IN A BROADER SENSE.
IN A BROADER SENSE.
IT'S ACCESS TO CULTURAL
INSTITUTIONS LIKE MUSEUMS,
CULTURAL EVENTS, THAT'S
REALLY
REALLY PART OF THE FABRIC OF
LEARNING.
PART OF THE FABRIC OF
LEARNING. >> Woodruff: BUT MORE
EDUCATION
>> Woodruff: BUT MORE
EDUCATION HAS NOT ALWAYS
TRANSLATED INTO
HAS NOT ALWAYS TRANSLATED
INTO EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES:
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES: 41%
OF THOSE WITH A DISABILITY
41% OF THOSE WITH A
DISABILITY AND OF WORKING AGE
ARE EMPLOYED,
AND OF WORKING AGE ARE
EMPLOYED, COMPARED WITH 79% OF
THOSE
COMPARED WITH 79% OF THOSE
WITHOUT A DISABILITY.
WITHOUT A DISABILITY. EVEN
THOSE WHO ARE EMPLOYED EARN
EVEN THOSE WHO ARE EMPLOYED
EARN ON AVERAGE 37% LESS THAN
THEIR
ON AVERAGE 37% LESS THAN
THEIR ABLE BODIED
COUNTERPARTS.
ABLE BODIED COUNTERPARTS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE NOTE OF
THE
THE DISPARITY AT A CELEBRATION
FOR
DISPARITY AT A CELEBRATION
FOR THE ACT EARLIER THIS
WEEK.
THE ACT EARLIER THIS WEEK. >>
IN SOME CASES, IT'S A LACK
OF
>> IN SOME CASES, IT'S A LACK
OF ACCESS TO SKILLS
TRAINING.
ACCESS TO SKILLS TRAINING. IN
SOME CASES, IT'S AN EMPLOYER
IN SOME CASES, IT'S AN
EMPLOYER THAT CAN'T SEE ALL THAT
THESE
THAT CAN'T SEE ALL THAT THESE
CANDIDATES FOR A JOB HAVE TO
CANDIDATES FOR A
JOB HAVE TO OFFER.
OFFER. WHATEVER THE
REASON, WE'VE GOT
WHATEVER THE REASON,
WE'VE GOT TO DO BETTER.
TO DO BETTER. OUR COUNTRY
CANNOT LET ALL THAT
OUR COUNTRY CANNOT LET ALL
THAT INCREDIBLE TALENT GO TO
WASTE.
INCREDIBLE TALENT GO TO
WASTE. >> Woodruff: WHILE MUCH
WORK TO
>> Woodruff: WHILE MUCH WORK
TO ENFORCE THE LAW REMAINS TO
BE
ENFORCE THE LAW REMAINS TO BE
DONE, TECHNOLOGICAL
ADVANCEMENTS
ADVANCEMENTS OVER THE PAST 25
YEARS ARE
OVER THE PAST 25 YEARS ARE
CREATING OPPORTUNITIES WHERE
THERE ONCE SEEMED NO HOPE.
JASON BARNES LOST PART OF
HIS
JASON BARNES LOST PART OF HIS
ARM DURING A WORK ACCIDENT.
HE WAS A TALENTED DRUMMER
AND
HE WAS A TALENTED DRUMMER AND
ORIGINALLY CONTINUED PLAYING
WITH A RUDIMENTARY
PROSTHETIC.
PROSTHETIC. AFTER SEEING VIDEOS
OF THE
AFTER SEEING VIDEOS OF THE
MUSICAL CYBORGS-- ROBOTS
THAT
MUSICAL CYBORGS-- ROBOTS THAT
COLLABORATE MUSICALLY WITH
HUMANS-- CREATED BY GIL
WEINBERG, A PROFESSOR AT
GEORGIA
GEORGIA TECH UNIVERSITY, JASON
REACHED
TECH UNIVERSITY, JASON
REACHED OUT AND GIL DESIGNED A
ROBOTIC
OUT AND GIL DESIGNED A
ROBOTIC PROTHESIS FOR HIM.
PROTHESIS FOR HIM. THE ARM
CAN DRUM AT 20 HITS PER
THE ARM CAN DRUM AT 20 HITS
PER SECOND, A SPEED NOT
HUMANLY
SECOND, A SPEED NOT
HUMANLY POSSIBLE.
POSSIBLE. >> SO THERE
IS ONE STICK THAT IS
>> SO THERE IS ONE STICK
THAT IS CONTROLLED VIA EMG.
CONTROLLED VIA EMG. SO THERE
ARE MUSCLES IN MY ARM,
SO THERE ARE MUSCLES IN MY
ARM, ESSENTIALLY THERE ARE
SIGNALS
ESSENTIALLY THERE ARE SIGNALS
THAT PICK UP THE RESIDUAL
MUSCLE
MUSCLE SIGNALS AND SO I CAN
CONTROL IT
SIGNALS AND SO I CAN CONTROL
IT ACCORDINGLY, IT'S ROUTED
THROUGH
ACCORDINGLY, IT'S ROUTED
THROUGH A COMPUTER.
A COMPUTER. AND THE
SECOND STICK IS ACTUALLY
AND THE SECOND STICK IS
ACTUALLY KIND OF A MIND OF ITS
OWN, IT
KIND OF A MIND OF ITS OWN, IT
RUNS OFF ITS OWN COMPUTER.
IT LISTENS TO THE MUSIC AND
COMPLIMENTS IT HOW IT THINKS
IT
IT SHOULD BE COMPLEMENTED WITH
IT'S
SHOULD BE COMPLEMENTED
WITH IT'S OWN RHYTHMS.
OWN RHYTHMS. >> HE'S THE
ENVY OF ALL KINDS OF
>> HE'S THE ENVY OF ALL KINDS
OF HEAVY METAL DRUMMERS THAT
WOULD
HEAVY METAL DRUMMERS THAT
WOULD LOVE TO HAVE HIS SPEED
RIGHT
LOVE TO HAVE HIS
SPEED RIGHT NOW.
NOW. TECHNOLOGY CAN
CREATE ALL KINDS
TECHNOLOGY CAN CREATE ALL
KINDS OF THINGS FOR PEOPLE WITH
LEG
OF THINGS FOR PEOPLE WITH LEG
AND ARM AMPUTEES SUCH AS
RUNNING
RUNNING IF YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
LEG OR
IF YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT LEG
OR DRUMMING IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT
DRUMMING IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT ARMS AND ALLOW PEOPLE
WITH
ARMS AND ALLOW PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES TO REALLY
EXCEED
DISABILITIES TO REALLY EXCEED
AND PUT THE LINE IN THE SAND
FOR
FOR US TO TRY AND EXPLORE THAT
US TO TRY AND EXPLORE
THAT FOR OURSELVES.
OURSELVES.
>> Woodruff: AND BEYOND
TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS,
FRED
FRED WEINER HOPES 25 YEARS FROM
NOW
WEINER HOPES 25 YEARS FROM
NOW WE'LL HAVE ACHIEVED MUCH
MORE
WE'LL HAVE ACHIEVED MUCH MORE
>> HOPEFULLY WE'LL BE
TALKING
>> HOPEFULLY WE'LL BE TALKING
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES WHO'S DISABLED
AND
AND THAT NOBODY THINKS ANYTHING
OF
THAT NOBODY THINKS
ANYTHING OF IT.
IT. >> Woodruff: WE
HEAR MORE ON ALL
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR MORE ON
ALL THIS FROM THREE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE
THIS FROM THREE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE LONG BEEN INVOLVED IN THE
EFFORT
LONG BEEN INVOLVED IN THE
EFFORT TO END
DISCRIMINATION:
TO END DISCRIMINATION: JUDITH
HEUMANN IS A LONG-TIME
JUDITH HEUMANN IS A LONG-TIME
ACTIVIST FOR THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES AND NOW SPECIAL
ADVISOR FOR INTERNATIONAL
DISABILITY RIGHTS AT THE
STATE
DISABILITY RIGHTS AT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT.
DEPARTMENT. TATYANA
MCFADDEN IS A WHEELCHAIR
TATYANA MCFADDEN IS A
WHEELCHAIR RACER WHO HAS MEDALED
IN EACH OF
RACER WHO HAS MEDALED IN EACH
OF THE LAST THREE
PARALYMPICS,
THE LAST THREE PARALYMPICS,
INCLUDING WINNING THREE GOLD
MEDALS IN THE 2012
PARALYMPICS
PARALYMPICS IN LONDON.
IN LONDON. AND U.S.
REPRESENTATIVE JIM
AND U.S. REPRESENTATIVE JIM
LANGEVIN OF RHODE ISLAND IS,
AMONG HIS OTHER DUTIES,
CO-CHAIR
CO-CHAIR OF THE BIPARTISAN
DISABILITIES
OF THE BIPARTISAN
DISABILITIES CAUCUS.
CAUCUS. WE WELCOME
ALL THREE OF YOU TO
WE WELCOME ALL THREE
OF YOU TO THE PROGRAM.
THE PROGRAM. TATIANA,
TO YOU, FIRST, THE
TATIANA, TO YOU, FIRST, THE
A.D.A. WAS ALREADY THE LAW
OF
A.D.A. WAS ALREADY THE LAW OF
THE LAND WHEN YOU TAME TO
THE
THE LAND WHEN YOU TAME TO THE
UNITED STATES AT AGE 6 FROM
UNITED STATES AT
AGE 6 FROM RUSSIA.
RUSSIA. HOW HAS IT
MADE A DIFFERENCE IN
HOW HAS IT MADE A DIFFERENCE
IN YOUR LIFE, DO YOU THINK?
YOUR LIFE, DO YOU THINK? >>
I REALLY HAVE TO THANK THE
>> I REALLY HAVE TO THANK THE
PEOPLE WHO CAME BEFORE ME
AND
PEOPLE WHO CAME BEFORE ME AND
WHO MADE A.D.A. POSSIBLE.
I HAVE THE RIGHT TO AN
EDUCATION.
EDUCATION. I GRADUATED
RECENTLY FROM THE
I GRADUATED RECENTLY FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS.
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS. I'M
GOING TO GET MY MASTER'S
I'M GOING TO GET MY
MASTER'S PROGRAM.
PROGRAM. BUT THE MOST
IMPORTANT WAY THE
BUT THE MOST IMPORTANT WAY
THE A.D.A. TOOK PART WAS WHEN I
WAS
A.D.A. TOOK PART WAS WHEN
I WAS IN HIGH SCHOOL.
IN HIGH SCHOOL. COMING
BACK FROM ATHENS IN 2004,
COMING BACK FROM ATHENS IN
2004, I WAS A PARALYMPICS
MEDALIST.
I WAS A PARALYMPICS MEDALIST.
I WANTED TO BE PART OF THE
HIGH
HIGH SCHOOL TRACK TEAM.
SCHOOL TRACK TEAM. THEY
DENIED ME THE RIGHT TO A
THEY DENIED ME THE RIGHT TO A
UNIFORM, SAID I COULD RUN
WITH
WITH MY OWN KIND AND WOULDN'T
ALLOW
MY OWN KIND AND WOULDN'T
ALLOW ME TO PARTICIPATE IN HIGH
SCHOOL
ME TO PARTICIPATE IN
HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS.
SPORTS. WE TOOK
ACTION AND FILED A
WE TOOK ACTION AND FILED
A LAWSUIT WITH NO MONEY.
LAWSUIT WITH NO MONEY.
BECAUSE OF THE A.D.A., WE
COULD
COULD SUE AND I THANKED THE
A.D.A. FOR
SUE AND I THANKED THE
A.D.A. FOR THAT.
THAT. >> Woodruff:
ID MADE A HUGE
>> Woodruff: ID MADE A
HUGE DIFFERENCE FOR YOU.
DIFFERENCE FOR YOU. JUDITH
HEUMANN, HOW HAS IT MADE
JUDITH HEUMANN, HOW HAS IT
MADE A DIFFERENCE FOR YOU?
A DIFFERENCE FOR YOU?
>> I'M 64.
>> I'M 64. I HAD POLIO
IN 1949 RIGHT AFTER
I HAD POLIO IN 1949 RIGHT
AFTER PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
DIED.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT DIED.
WHEN I WAS GROWING UP, I WAS
DENIED THE RIGHT TO GO TO
SCHOOL
SCHOOL BECAUSE I USED A
WHEELCHAIR.
BECAUSE I USED A WHEELCHAIR.
I ONLY HAD A TEACHER WHO
CAME
I ONLY HAD A TEACHER WHO CAME
TWO AND A HALF HOURS A WEEK
UNTIL I WAS NINE YEARS OLD,
AND
AND WENT TO UNIVERSITIES BUT
THEY
WENT TO UNIVERSITIES BUT
THEY WERE VERY INACCESSIBLE.
WERE VERY INACCESSIBLE.
NOW I WORK AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT, AS YOU SAID, AND
I
I GO TO WORK EVERY DAY ON AN
GO TO WORK EVERY DAY
ON AN ACCESSIBLE BUS.
ACCESSIBLE BUS.
I TAKE THE TRAIN HOME
FREQUENTLY.
I FLY ON AIRPLANES.
I FLY ON AIRPLANES. I CAN
GET ON TRAINS TO GET UP
I CAN GET ON TRAINS TO GET UP
THE EAST COAST AND TRAVEL
AROUND
AROUND THE WORLD WHERE
CONDITIONS ARE
THE WORLD WHERE CONDITIONS
ARE NOT AS GOOD AS HERE.
NOT AS GOOD AS HERE.
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN
LANGEVIN, YOU WROTE AN
ARTICLE
ARTICLE THIS WEEK WHICH, AMONG
OTHER
THIS WEEK WHICH, AMONG OTHER
THINGS YOU, FOR ALL THE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE
A.D.A.,
A.D.A., IT'S PROMISE HAS NOT
BEEN
IT'S PROMISE HAS NOT BEEN
FULFILLED.
FULFILLED. WHAT DID
YOU MEAN BY THAT?
WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THAT? >>
WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I WANTED
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I
WANTED TO SAY THAT THE AMERICANS
WITH
TO SAY THAT THE AMERICANS
WITH DISABILITIES ACT HAS HAD
AN
DISABILITIES ACT HAS HAD
AN IMPACT ON MY LIFE.
IMPACT ON MY LIFE. I WAS
INJURED ABOUT TEN YEARS
I WAS INJURED ABOUT TEN YEARS
BEFORE THE A.D.A. PASSED, SO
I
I REMEMBER WHAT THE WORLD WAS
LIKE
REMEMBER WHAT THE WORLD WAS
LIKE BEFORE A.D.A. WAS PASSED
AND
BEFORE A.D.A. WAS PASSED
AND AFTER IT WAS ENACTED.
AFTER IT WAS ENACTED.
CLEARLY, IT'S BROKEN DOWN
BARRIERS AND OBSTACLES AND
HAS
HAS OPEN DOORS FOR PEOPLE
WITH
OPEN DOORS FOR PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES.
DISABILITIES. BUT THERE
IS STILL MUCH MORE
BUT THERE IS STILL MUCH
MORE WORK TO BE DONE.
WORK TO BE DONE.
IIT HAS ALSO CHANGED THE
PSYCHOLOGICAL BARRIERS THAT
EXISTED BEFORE THE A.D.A.
WAS
EXISTED BEFORE THE A.D.A. WAS
PASSED, AND IT REALLY IS THE
CIVIL RIGHTS LAW OF OUR
TIME.
CIVIL RIGHTS LAW OF OUR TIME.
BUT WE HAVE MORE WORK TO DO
IN
IN TERMS OF PROVIDING REAL
TERMS OF PROVIDING REAL
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
THERE IS STILL TOO MANY
PEOPLE
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES THAT
ARE
WITH DISABILITIES
THAT ARE UNEMPLOYED.
UNEMPLOYED. APPROXIMATELY
34% AMONG THE
APPROXIMATELY 34% AMONG THE
PEOPLE THAT WOULD HAVE THE
DISABILITY THAT HAVE JOBS,
THERE'S SO MUCH MORE WORK TO
DO
THERE'S SO MUCH MORE
WORK TO DO THERE.
THERE. TRANSPORTATION,
MAKING THAT
TRANSPORTATION, MAKING THAT
TRULY ACCESSIBLE AND EASY TO
ACCESS, STILL WE NEED MORE
WORK
ACCESS, STILL WE NEED
MORE WORK TO DO.
TO DO. ACCESSIBLE
TRANSPORTATION IS NOT
ACCESSIBLE TRANSPORTATION IS
NOT ABUNDANT, WHERE IT NEEDS TO
BE
ABUNDANT, WHERE IT NEEDS TO
BE FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING,
ACCESSIBLE
ACCESSIBLE HOUSING IS ANOTHER
AREA WHERE WE
HOUSING IS ANOTHER AREA WHERE
WE HAVE MORE WORK TO DO.
HAVE MORE WORK TO DO. >>
Woodruff: LET ME TURN TO
>> Woodruff: LET ME TURN
TO YOU ON THAT TATYANA.
YOU ON THAT TATYANA. HOW DO
YOU SEE THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
HOW DO YOU SEE THE
PSYCHOLOGICAL BARRIERS OUT
THERE, WHETHER TO
BARRIERS OUT THERE, WHETHER
TO EMPLOYMENT OR EDUCATION.
EMPLOYMENT OR EDUCATION.
WHAT DO YOU SEE?
WHAT DO YOU SEE? >> I
BELIEVE THERE IS MORE WORK
>> I BELIEVE THERE IS MORE
WORK TO BE DONE AND I BELIEVE
IT'S MY
TO BE DONE AND I BELIEVE IT'S
MY GENERATION'S TURN TO TAKE
OVER
GENERATION'S TURN TO TAKE
OVER AND TO HELP AND TO SAY
THAT
AND TO HELP AND TO SAY THAT
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
SHOULD
SHOULD BE EMPLOYED, AND WE SEE
THE
BE EMPLOYED, AND WE SEE THE
CHANGE COMING, BUT I SEE THE
CHANGE WILL BE DEFINITELY IN
THE
CHANGE WILL BE DEFINITELY
IN THE FUTURE.
FUTURE. >> Woodruff:
WHAT DO YOU THINK
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU
THINK IS HOLDING IT BACK?
IS HOLDING IT BACK? THE
PRESIDENT SAID SOMETIMES IT
THE PRESIDENT SAID SOMETIMES
IT MAY BE DISCOURAGEMENT ON
THE
MAY BE DISCOURAGEMENT ON THE
PART OF THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES.
DISABILITIES. MAYBE THEY'RE NOT
GOING AFTER
MAYBE THEY'RE NOT GOING AFTER
SOME OF THE JOBS THEY COULD
GET.
GET. >> I THINK IT'S JUST
EDUCATION
>> I THINK IT'S JUST
EDUCATION AND TALKING ABOUT
DISABILITY.
AND TALKING ABOUT DISABILITY.
DISABILITY IS PART OF WHO I
AM,
AM, AND IT'S JUST SHARING THAT
WITH
AND IT'S JUST SHARING THAT
WITH THE PUBLIC AND SAYING I CAN
DO
THE PUBLIC AND SAYING I CAN
DO THIS, THIS IS WHAT I CAN DO
AND
THIS, THIS IS WHAT I CAN DO
AND THIS IS HOW I DO IT AND
SHOWING
THIS IS HOW I DO IT AND
SHOWING THE PUBLIC THAT.
THE PUBLIC THAT. >>
Woodruff: JUDITH, HOW ABOUT
>> Woodruff: JUDITH, HOW
ABOUT THE QUESTION OF
EMPLOYMENT, LACK
THE QUESTION OF EMPLOYMENT,
LACK OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PEOPLE
WHO ARE
OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PEOPLE
WHO ARE ABLE-BODIED?
ABLE-BODIED? THEY SAY
IT'S TOO MUCH TO WASTE.
THEY SAY IT'S TOO MUCH TO
WASTE. >> SO MANY PEOPLE
STOPPED
>> SO MANY PEOPLE STOPPED
LOOKING FOR JOBS BECAUSE OF
BAD
BAD EXPERIENCES, BUT MANY
ARE
EXPERIENCES, BUT MANY ARE
LOOKING FOR JOBS AND ARE NOT
BEING GIVEN EQUAL
OPPORTUNITIES.
OPPORTUNITIES. SO I THINK RIGHT
NOW THE
SO I THINK RIGHT NOW THE
PRESIDENT HAS AN INITIATIVE
TO
TO GET THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
BE
GET THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
BE EMPLOYING MORE DISABLED
PEOPLE,
EMPLOYING MORE DISABLED
PEOPLE, AND NOW WE HAVE ABOUT
13% OF THE
AND NOW WE HAVE ABOUT 13% OF
THE FEDERAL WORKFORCE ARE
PEOPLE
FEDERAL WORKFORCE ARE PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES AND I
THINK,
THINK, QUITE FRANKLY, HAVING
DISABLED
QUITE FRANKLY, HAVING
DISABLED PEOPLE IN THE WORKFORCE
ALSO, WE
PEOPLE IN THE WORKFORCE ALSO,
WE REACH OUT TO OTHER PEOPLE
WE
REACH OUT TO OTHER PEOPLE WE
FEEL ARE QUALIFIED TO GET
THEM
THEM TO APPLY FOR JOBS.
TO APPLY FOR JOBS. SO THE
STATE DEPARTMENT, WE'VE
SO THE STATE DEPARTMENT,
WE'VE DEFINITELY SEEN AN
INCREASE IN
DEFINITELY SEEN AN INCREASE
IN THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS
WHO
THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAVE DISABILITIES AND THE
NUMBERED OF DISABLED
INDIVIDUALS
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE WILLING TO
DISCLOSE THEY
WHO ARE WILLING TO
DISCLOSE THEY HAVE THEM.
HAVE THEM. >> Woodruff:
WHAT IS STOPPING
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS STOPPING
EMPLOYERS SOMETIMES FROM
HIRING
HIRING SOMEONE WITH A
DISABILITY?
SOMEONE WITH A DISABILITY? >>
WELL, AGAIN, BACK TO WHAT I
>> WELL, AGAIN, BACK TO WHAT
I SAID EARLIER IS THERE MAY BE
A
SAID EARLIER IS THERE MAY BE
A BIT OF FEAR ABOUT WHAT IT
MEANS
BIT OF FEAR ABOUT WHAT IT
MEANS TO HAVE A REASONABLE
TO HAVE A REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATION, WHAT DOES
THAT
ACCOMMODATION, WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN, AND THERE ARE SOME
PEOPLE
PEOPLE WHO THINK THERE ARE
WHO THINK THERE ARE
EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES THAT
HAVE
HAVE TO BE GONE THROUGH TO
EMPLOY
TO BE GONE THROUGH TO EMPLOY
SOMEBODY WITH A DISABILITY.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THE A.D.A.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THE
A.D.A. REQUIRES.
REQUIRES. REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATIONs WHAT
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONs
WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT.
IT'S ALL ABOUT. I WOULD
ALSO SAY THAT PERHAPS
I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT PERHAPS
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES,
THERE'S A FEAR FACTOR OF NOT
WANTING TO GO OUT TO FIND A
JOB
JOB BECAUSE THEY'RE AFRAID
THEY'RE
BECAUSE THEY'RE AFRAID
THEY'RE GOING TO LOSE THEIR
LONG-TERM OR
GOING TO LOSE THEIR LONG-TERM
OR SHORT-TERM COMMUNITY SUPPORTS
--
SHORT-TERM COMMUNITY SUPPORTS
-- THINGS LIKE P.C.A.s AND
SUCH.
THINGS LIKE P.C.A.s AND
SUCH. THERE HAS BEEN --
THERE HAS BEEN -- >>
Woodruff: P.C.A. MEANING --
>> Woodruff: P.C.A. MEANING
-- PERSONAL CARE ATTENDANTS.
PERSONAL CARE ATTENDANTS.
>> Woodruff: OH.
>> Woodruff: OH. ALSO
FEAR OF LOSING HEALTH
ALSO FEAR OF LOSING
HEALTH CARE.
CARE. THERE HAS BEEN
PROGRESS MADE ON
THERE HAS BEEN PROGRESS MADE
ON THINGS LIKE THE TICKET TO
WORK
THINGS LIKE THE TICKET TO
WORK PROGRAM AND OTHER PROGRAMS
THAT
PROGRAM AND OTHER PROGRAMS
THAT HELP TO ENSURE THAT PEOPLE
WON'T
HELP TO ENSURE THAT PEOPLE
WON'T LOSE THINGS LIKE THEIR
HEALTH
LOSE THINGS LIKE THEIR HEALTH
CARE AND OTHER SUPPORTS.
SO JADING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES -- SO EDUCATING
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
THAT
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES THAT
THERE ARE OPPORTUNITIES OUT
THERE AND STILL MORE WORK TO
BE
THERE AND STILL MORE WORK
TO BE DONE IN THAT AREA.
DONE IN THAT AREA. THERE
ARE THINGS OTHER THAN JUST
THERE ARE THINGS OTHER THAN
JUST THE FINANCIAL INCOME
SOMEBODY
THE FINANCIAL INCOME SOMEBODY
MAY LOSE BY GOING OFF OF
S.S.I.
S.S.I. OR S.S.D.I. --
OR S.S.D.I. --
>> Woodruff: THE SOCIAL
SECURITY BENEFITS YOU'RE
REFERRING TO.
>> YES.
>> YES. >> Woodruff:
TO ALL THREE OF
>> Woodruff: TO ALL THREE OF
YOU, WHAT DO YOU WANT PEOPLE
WATCHING AND LISTENING TO
THIS
WATCHING AND LISTENING
TO THIS TO KNOW?
TO KNOW? PEOPLE WHO
ARE ABLE-BODIED, WHO
PEOPLE WHO ARE ABLE-BODIED,
WHO DON'T HAVE A DISABILITY,
WHAT
DON'T HAVE A DISABILITY, WHAT
SHOULD THEY KNOW ABOUT THOSE
WITH DISABILITIES AND WHAT
YOU
WITH DISABILITIES AND
WHAT YOU REALLY WANT?
REALLY WANT? >> THAT
IF YOU EMPLOY SOMEBODY
>> THAT IF YOU EMPLOY
SOMEBODY SOMEONE WITH A
DICIALGHTS I
SOMEONE WITH A DICIALGHTS I
THINK YOU'RE CREATING A
BETTER
BETTER AND MORE EQUAL WORLD, AND
IT'S
AND MORE EQUAL WORLD, AND
IT'S JU ABOSTUT SHOWING THE
JU ABOSTUT SHOWING THE
POSSIBILITIES OF WHAT CAN BE
POSSIBILITIES OF
WHAT CAN BE DONE.
DONE. WE LIVE IN
AMERICA WHERE THAT
WE LIVE IN AMERICA WHERE THAT
CAN BE DONE, SO THAT'S WHAT
I'M
I'M HOPING TO TEACH PEOPLE AND
TO
HOPING TO TEACH PEOPLE AND TO
SHOW PEOPLE, THAT THIS IS
ALL
SHOW PEOPLE, THAT THIS IS ALL
POSSIBLE, AND JUST TO KEEP
POSSIBLE, AND JUST TO
KEEP MOVING FORWARD.
MOVING FORWARD. >> Woodruff:
AND JUDY HEUMANN,
>> Woodruff: AND JUDY
HEUMANN, WHAT ABOUT ATTITUDES
AND HOW
WHAT ABOUT ATTITUDES AND HOW
PEOPLE LOOK AT PEOPLE WITH
PEOPLE LOOK AT PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES?
DISABILITIES? >> THINGS
ARE NOT GOING TO
>> THINGS ARE NOT GOING
TO CHANGEOVER NIGHT.
CHANGEOVER NIGHT. I THINK
THE NETWORK AND THE
I THINK THE NETWORK AND THE
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION ON
DISABILITY THAT ARE WORKING
WITH
WITH MANY EMPLOYERS WHO SAY THEY
ARE
MANY EMPLOYERS WHO SAY THEY
ARE INTERESTED IN EMPLOYING
MORE
INTERESTED IN EMPLOYING MORE
DISABLED PEOPLE AND I THINK
THERE'S GOING TO BE DATA
COMING
COMING OUT IN THE NEAR FUTURE
THAT HAVE
OUT IN THE NEAR FUTURE THAT
HAVE HOW COMPANIES ARE DOING
TO
HOW COMPANIES ARE DOING
TO ADVANCE EMPLOYMENT.
ADVANCE EMPLOYMENT.
ULTIMATELY, WHAT WE WANT IS
THAT
THAT SOCIETY SEES US AS JUST A
PART
SOCIETY SEES US AS JUST
A PART OF SOCIETY.
OF SOCIETY. THAT'S
REALLY IS, THAT THEY SEE
THAT'S REALLY IS, THAT THEY
SEE US AS VALUED MEMBERS OF
OUR
US AS VALUED MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITIES.
COMMUNITIES.
>> CONGRESSMAN LANGEVIN,
QUICKLY, WHAT DO YOU WANT
PEOPLE
PEOPLE TO KNOW ABOUT THOSE
WITH
TO KNOW ABOUT THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES?
DISABILITIES? >> THAT
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
>> THAT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES ARE TREMENDOUS
EMPLOYEES, THEY
ARE TREMENDOUS EMPLOYEES,
THEY HAVE INCREDIBLE GIFTS
AND
HAVE INCREDIBLE GIFTS AND
TALENTS TO CONTRIBUTE TO
ACCOMPANY A PLACE OF
BUSINESS,
BUSINESS, TO THE WORLD IN
GENERAL, AND
TO THE WORLD IN GENERAL, AND
I'VE OFTEN SAID I STILL
BELIEVE
BELIEVE PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES, ONE OF
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES, ONE
OF THE NATION'S GREATEST
UNTAPPED
THE NATION'S GREATEST
UNTAPPED RESOURCES THAT WE NEED
TO TAP
RESOURCES THAT WE NEED TO TAP
INTO, AND I KNOW WE CAN MAKE
IT
IT CERTAINLY A BETTER WORLD
AND,
CERTAINLY A BETTER WORLD AND,
AGAIN, CONTINUED TO REALIZE
FULL
FULL PROMISE OF THE AMERICANS
WITH
PROMISE OF THE AMERICANS
WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
DISABILITIES ACT. THAT IS
MY GOAL AS A MEMBER OF
THAT IS MY GOAL AS A MEMBER
OF CONGRESS WHO I AM THE
FIRST
CONGRESS WHO I AM THE FIRST
QUADRIPLEGIC ELECTED TO
CONGRESS
CONGRESS AND I WORK WITH MY
COLLEAGUES TO
AND I WORK WITH MY COLLEAGUES
TO BRING DOWN THE BARRIERS, OPEN
UP
BRING DOWN THE BARRIERS,
OPEN UP DOORS AND CREATE JOB
DOORS AND CREATE JOB
OPPORTUNITIES, AND I KNOW WE
HAVE GREAT SUPPORT HERE ON
THE
THE HILL AND WE JUST NEED TO GET
HILL AND WE JUST NEED TO GET
THE WORD OUT TO REALIZE THE
PROMISE
WORD OUT TO REALIZE
THE PROMISE OF A.D.A.
OF A.D.A. >> Woodruff:
CONGRESSMAN JIM
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN JIM
LANGEVIN, JUDITH HEUMANN
FROM
LANGEVIN, JUDITH HEUMANN FROM
THE STATE DEPARTMENT,
TATYANA
THE STATE DEPARTMENT, TATYANA
McFADDEN, PARALYMPICS GOLD
MEDALIST, WE THANK YOU ALL
MEDALIST, WE THANK
YOU ALL THREE.
THREE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE'RE BOMBARDED
WITH ADS EVERY DAY ON TV,
ONLINE, OR
ADS EVERY DAY ON TV, ONLINE,
OR JUST WALKING AROUND THE
JUST WALKING AROUND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT'S NO ACCIDENT.
THAT'S NO ACCIDENT. THE
AD BUSINESS SPENDS OVER
THE AD BUSINESS SPENDS
OVER $160 BILLION A YEAR.
$160 BILLION A YEAR. BUT
EVEN BEFORE THE AD REACHES
BUT EVEN BEFORE THE AD
REACHES YOUR SMART PHONE, AD
MAKERS ARE
YOUR SMART PHONE, AD MAKERS
ARE BUSY SPOTTING TRENDS BEFORE
THEY
BUSY SPOTTING TRENDS
BEFORE THEY TAKE SHAPE.
TAKE SHAPE. ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN WENT TO CALIFORNIA TO
TAKE A PEEK AT THAT, FOR OUR
WEEKLY SEGMENT, "MAKING
SENSE",
SENSE", WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE
WHICH AIRS EVERY THURSDAY
ON THE NEWSHOUR.
NEWSHOUR. WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT TRENDS,
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT TRENDS,
WE'RE CA CAPTURING WHAT'S
HAPPEG
HAPPEG IN THE CULTURE AND WITH
HUMAN
IN THE CULTURE AND
WITH HUMAN BEHAVIOR.
BEHAVIOR. >> COMPANIES
NEED TO KNOW WHAT
>> COMPANIES NEED TO KNOW
WHAT TO PREPARE FOR NEXT
SAYS
TO PREPARE FOR NEXT SAYS
TRENDMAKER D.D. GORDON, ON
BRAND
BRAND BUILDING AND NEW
PRODUCT
BUILDING AND NEW PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT.
DEVELOPMENT. >> WE LOOK
FOR OPPORTUNITY AND
>> WE LOOK FOR OPPORTUNITY
AND SPACE FOR AN OPENING HERE
FOR US
SPACE FOR AN OPENING HERE
FOR US TO CREATE SOMETHING.
TO CREATE SOMETHING.
>> THE FIRST SLIGHT
TRANSFORMATION IN GORDON'S
LATEST GUIDE TO THE CUTTING
LATEST GUIDE TO THE
CUTTING EDGE --
EDGE --
>> GENDERED AND TETHERED.
>> GENDERED AND TETHERED. A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE TALK ABOUT
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
TALK ABOUT GENDER NOW.
GENDER NOW.
>> I MAKE MY OWN COUTURE.
>> I MAKE MY OWN COUTURE. THE
NEXT BIG MOVEMENT IS THIS
THE NEXT BIG MOVEMENT IS THIS
IDEA TO MOVE IN AND OUT OF
IDEA TO MOVE IN AND
OUT OF GENDER.
GENDER. THERE IS
THIS WOMAN WHO'S AN
THERE IS THIS WOMAN WHO'S AN
ACTRESS ON "ORANGE IS THE
NEW
ACTRESS ON "ORANGE IS THE NEW
BLACK," HER NAME IS RUBY
ROSE,
ROSE, AND SHE IDENTIFIES AS
AND SHE IDENTIFIES AS
GENDER-FLUID.
GENDER-FLUID. SHE HAS
VIDEOS POSTED ONLINE
SHE HAS VIDEOS POSTED ONLINE
WHERE SHE TRANSFORMS FROM
BEING
BEING A WOMAN INTO A MAN.
A WOMAN INTO A MAN. >> AND
INSTITUTIONAL AMERICA IS
>> AND INSTITUTIONAL AMERICA
IS BEING TO RESPOND TO THE
GENDER
BEING TO RESPOND TO THE
GENDER UNTETHERED TREND.
UNTETHERED TREND. >> 1500
UNIVERSITIES THAT HAVE
>> 1500 UNIVERSITIES THAT
HAVE GENDER NEUTRAL HOUSING
AND
GENDER NEUTRAL HOUSING
AND BATHROOMS.
BATHROOMS. WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT CORPORATE
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT
CORPORATE AMERICA AND H.R.,
THEY'RE HAVING
AMERICA AND H.R., THEY'RE
HAVING TO LEARN AND UNDERSTAND A
NEW
TO LEARN AND UNDERSTAND A NEW
VERNACULAR LIKE WHAT DO YOU
CALL
CALL A PERSON WHO IS A HE ONE
DAY AND
A PERSON WHO IS A HE ONE
DAY AND A SHE THE NEXT?
A SHE THE NEXT? >> ATHAS
GORDON POINTS OUT,
>> ATHAS GORDON POINTS OUT,
PRODUCTS MARKETED EXPLICITLY
BY
BY GENDER CAN PUT UP TO HALF
OF
GENDER CAN PUT UP TO HALF
OF POTENTIAL SALES AT RISK.
POTENTIAL SALES AT RISK. WHAT
MIGHT A GENDER UNTETHERED
WHAT MIGHT A GENDER
UNTETHERED PRODUCT LOOK
LIKE?
PRODUCT LOOK LIKE? >> I
WANT TO CREATE A PHYSICAL
>> I WANT TO CREATE A
PHYSICAL PRODUCT TO ALLOW YOU TO
BE
PRODUCT TO ALLOW
YOU TO BE FLUID.
FLUID. H THIS DOLL
ALLOWS YOU TO CHANGE
H THIS DOLL ALLOWS YOU TO
CHANGE THE GENDER AS YOU
LIKE.
THE GENDER AS YOU LIKE. WE'RE
JUST KIND OF PUSHING AN
WE'RE JUST KIND OF PUSHING AN
IDEA OUT THERE AND GETTING
PEOPLE TO THINK ABOUT IT
DIFFERENTLY.
DIFFERENTLY. >> GORDON
IS PRESIDENT OF THE
>> GORDON IS PRESIDENT OF THE
INNOVATION GROUP OF STERLING
BRANDS, PART OF THE OMNICON
ADVERTISING AND MARKETING
CONGLOMERATE, BASED IN THE
LOS ANGELES BUILDING THAT
DOUBLES FOR A TECH FIRM IN
THE
THE HBO SERIES "SILICON
VALLEY."
HBO SERIES "SILICON VALLEY."
BUT TO GORDON, ONE TO HAVE
THE
THE NEW TRENDS IS ANTI-TECH,
A
NEW TRENDS IS ANTI-TECH, A
GROWING DESIRE FOR PRIVACY.
>> ISOLATION, PEOPLE ARE
FEELING
FEELING OVERWHELMED BY ALL THE
DATA AND
OVERWHELMED BY ALL THE DATA
AND ARE TRYING TO FIND WAYS OF
BEING
ARE TRYING TO FIND WAYS OF
BEING ON THE GRID WHILE BEING
OFF THE
ON THE GRID WHILE
BEING OFF THE GRID.
GRID. >> ARE YOU
CONCERNED ABOUT
>> ARE YOU CONCERNED
ABOUT WIRELESS SNOOPING?
WIRELESS SNOOPING? >>
THERE'S A WALLET CALLED THE
>> THERE'S A WALLET CALLED
THE BLOCK IT AND ALLOWS YOU TO
PUT
BLOCK IT AND ALLOWS YOU TO
PUT YOUR DEVICE INSIDE THIS
SLEEVE
YOUR DEVICE INSIDE THIS
SLEEVE SO THERE ARE NO SIGNALS
TO GET
SO THERE ARE NO SIGNALS
TO GET TO YOUR DEVICE.
TO YOUR DEVICE. >> IT
HELPS YOU MAINTAIN YOUR
>> IT HELPS YOU MAINTAIN YOUR
PRIVACY IN AN EVER
INCREASINGLY
INCREASINGLY WIRELESS WORLD.
WIRELESS WORLD. >> THERE
IS A PAIR OF JEANS
>> THERE IS A PAIR OF JEANS
THEY'VE SEWN THIS MATERIAL
INTO
INTO THE POCKETS.
THE POCKETS. THERE'S NO
WAY ANYBODY CAN HACK
THERE'S NO WAY ANYBODY
CAN HACK THE TECHNOLOGY.
THE TECHNOLOGY. >> IN
THE NEAR FUTURE, THERE
>> IN THE NEAR FUTURE, THERE
MIGHT BE A PRIVACY HELMET
THAT
THAT PREVENTS CAMERAS FROM
CAPTURING
PREVENTS CAMERAS FROM
CAPTURING THE WEARER'S FACE.
THE WEARER'S FACE. >> THE
PRIVACY HELMET IS NOT A
>> THE PRIVACY HELMET
IS NOT A REAL PRODUCT.
REAL PRODUCT. WHEN WE
SUPPORT ON A TREND, WE
WHEN WE SUPPORT ON A TREND,
WE LIKE TO SHOWCASE EVIDENCE IN
THE
LIKE TO SHOWCASE EVIDENCE IN
THE WORLD THAT BRINGS THE TREND
TO
WORLD THAT BRINGS THE TREND
TO LIFE, BUT WE ALSO LIKE TO
FUTURE
LIFE, BUT WE ALSO LIKE TO
FUTURE CAST WHERE WE THINK IS
TREND CAN
CAST WHERE WE THINK
IS TREND CAN GO.
GO.
>> GORDON HAS BEEN TREND
SPOTTING SINCE LATE '90s
WHEN
SPOTTING SINCE LATE '90s WHEN
SHE WAS PROFILED IN THE "NEW
YORKER" AND LATER FEATURED IN
A
A FRONT LINE DOCUMENTARY AS A
COOL
FRONT LINE DOCUMENTARY
AS A COOL HUNTER.
HUNTER.
>> PEOPLE WOULD SCOUR THE
STREETS FOR THE NEXT BIGGEST
THING AND GIVE IT TO
COMPANIES.
COMPANIES. >> IT GETS OUT THERE
AND
>> IT GETS OUT THERE AND
EVERYBODY HAS IT.
EVERYBODY HAS IT. >> SHE
FAKES A LONGER VIEW.
>> SHE FAKES A LONGER VIEW.
WHEN I DO MY FRIEND
RESEARCH,
WHEN I DO MY FRIEND RESEARCH,
I'M LOOKING FOR A LARGER
MOVEMENT THAT AREN'T GOING
TO
TO QUICKLY GO AWAY OFF.
QUICKLY GO AWAY OFF. >>
LIKE TECHNOLOGY ITSELF.
>> LIKE TECHNOLOGY
ITSELF. FOR EXAMPLE --
FOR EXAMPLE -- >>
HYPEREXPERIENCES, PEOPLE
NEED
>> HYPEREXPERIENCES, PEOPLE
NEED TO BE MORE IMMERSED IN
PRODUCTS
TO BE MORE IMMERSED IN
PRODUCTS AND BRANDS.
AND BRANDS.
>> VIRTUAL REALITY.
EVEN THE CULTURE AND THE
EXPECTATION PEOPLE HAVE WHEN
EXPECTATION PEOPLE HAVE
WHEN THEY GO TO THEME PARK
THEY GO TO THEME PARK
DESTINATIONS.
DESTINATIONS. >> MY
FAVORITE PART WAS THE
>> MY FAVORITE
PART WAS THE HEAT.
HEAT. >> EVEN
THINGS HAPPENING AT
>> EVEN THINGS HAPPENING AT
ME, HOLIKE AN ENTERTAINMENT
SYSTEM THAT ALLOWS YOU TO
HAVE
HAVE MUSIC OR ANY KIND OF
AUDIO
MUSIC OR ANY KIND OF AUDIO
PLAYING THROUGHOUT YOUR
HOUSE.
HOUSE. THEY HAVE DONE A
PARTNERSHIP
THEY HAVE DONE A PARTNERSHIP
WITH PHILLIPS WHERE IT'S NOW
LINKED TO LIGHTING SO YOU
CAN
LINKED TO LIGHTING SO YOU CAN
CREATE DIFFERENT MOODS
WITHIN
CREATE DIFFERENT MOODS WITHIN
YOUR OWN PERSONAL
ENVIRONMENT.
ENVIRONMENT. WHAT DOES THAT
GOING TO MEAN FOR
WHAT DOES THAT GOING TO MEAN
FOR THE WORKPLACE, AUTOMOTIVE,
FOR
THE WORKPLACE, AUTOMOTIVE,
FOR WHEN YOU GO OUT AND EAT
WITH
WHEN YOU GO OUT AND EAT WITH
YOUR FAMILY ON A SUNDAY
NIGHT?
NIGHT? >> A RELATED TREND SAYS
GORDON
>> A RELATED TREND SAYS
GORDON IS LIFE FRAMING, TAKING
PICTURES
IS LIFE FRAMING, TAKING
PICTURES OF YOUR SUNDAY MEAL,
FOR
OF YOUR SUNDAY MEAL, FOR
EXAMPLE, TO POST ONLINE.
EXAMPLE, TO POST ONLINE. >>
THAT TREND IS ALL ABOUT THE
>> THAT TREND IS ALL ABOUT
THE DOCUMENTATION OF
EXPERIENCES,
DOCUMENTATION OF EXPERIENCES,
HOW CONSUMERS ARE USING
PHOTOGRAPHY TO FRAME UP
THESE
PHOTOGRAPHY TO FRAME UP THESE
EXPERIENCES TO BE ABLE TO
ELEVATE THEIR STATUS AMONGST
THEIR GROUP OF PEERS ON
THEIR
THEIR GROUP OF PEERS
ON THEIR NETWORK.
NETWORK. HAVE YOU
HEARD OF INSTASHAM?
HAVE YOU HEARD OF INSTASHAM?
IT'S A WEB SITE WHERE YOU
CAN
IT'S A WEB SITE WHERE YOU CAN
DOWNLOAD PICTURES OF ANY
POSSIBLE SCENARIO, LIKE A
WILD
WILD PARTY OR A SCENE OF HIKING
UP A
PARTY OR A SCENE OF HIKING UP
A MOUNTAIN, AND POST IT WHEN
MOUNTAIN, AND POST IT WHEN
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO THINK I
DID
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
THINK I DID THAT.
THAT. >> AND WHAT
ARE THE ECONOMIC
>> AND WHAT ARE THE
ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS?
IMPLICATIONS? >> RIGHT
NOW CONSUMERS ARE MORE
>> RIGHT NOW CONSUMERS ARE
MORE INTERESTED IN EXPERIENCE
THAN
INTERESTED IN EXPERIENCE
THAN PRODUCTS.
PRODUCTS. THEY WANT TO
BE ABLE TO INTERACT
THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO
INTERACT WITH OTHER PEOPLE.
WITH OTHER PEOPLE. THEY
WANT TO BE ABLE TO FEEL A
THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO FEEL
A CONNECTION, THEY WANT TO BE
ABLE
CONNECTION, THEY WANT TO BE
ABLE TO MEET OTHER PEOPLE THAT
ARE
TO MEET OTHER PEOPLE
THAT ARE LIKE-MINDED.
LIKE-MINDED. >> IN
PHRASE, EXPERIENCE OVER
>> IN PHRASE, EXPERIENCE OVER
CONSUMPTION, AN EXAMPLE OF
THE
THE TREND GORDON CALL CALLS
FUJ-WA.
TREND GORDON CALL CALLS
FUJ-WA. >> CONSUMERS ARE
CONSCIOUS OF
>> CONSUMERS ARE CONSCIOUS OF
WHAT THEY'RE SPENDING SO
THEY
WHAT THEY'RE SPENDING SO THEY
WANT CHINGS THAT ARE CHEAP
BUT
BUT DESIGNED TO FUNCTION, LAST
AND
DESIGNED TO FUNCTION, LAST
AND LOOK REALLY GOOD.
LOOK REALLY GOOD. FAST
FASHION PRODUCTS LIKE H&M
FAST FASHION PRODUCTS LIKE
H&M OR CAUSE WHICH IS A MORE
ADULT
OR CAUSE WHICH IS A MORE
ADULT LINE FROM H&M.
LINE FROM H&M. >> AND ONE
MORE FINAL TREND FROM
>> AND ONE MORE FINAL TREND
FROM WHICH GORDON ADVICES
HER
WHICH GORDON ADVICES HER
CORPORATE CLIENTS.
CORPORATE CLIENTS. >> THE
BACKLASH, ABOUT SINGLE
>> THE BACKLASH,
ABOUT SINGLE LIVING.
LIVING. >> AGAINST
BUYING IN BULK.
>> AGAINST BUYING
IN BULK. CORRECT.
CORRECT. IF YOU'RE A
SINGLE PERSON LIVING
IF YOU'RE A SINGLE PERSON
LIVING IN A SMALL APARTMENT WITH
NOT A
IN A SMALL APARTMENT WITH NOT
A LOT OF STORAGE AND CAPACITY,
YOU
LOT OF STORAGE AND CAPACITY,
YOU WANT TO BE ABLE TO BUY JUST
FOR
WANT TO BE ABLE TO
BUY JUST FOR YOU.
YOU. >> COME TO
THINK OF IT, WITH
>> COME TO THINK OF IT, WITH
BABY BOOMERS DOWNSIZING AS
WELL,
WELL, THIS COULD BE A TREND FOR
YOUNG
THIS COULD BE A TREND FOR
YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE.
AND OLD ALIKE. THIS IS
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
THIS IS ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLOMON
REPORTING TO THE
PAUL SOLOMON REPORTING TO
THE PBS "NewsHour" FROM
PBS "NewsHour" FROM LOS
ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, WHERE I
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA,
WHERE I ACTUALLY WAS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, ANOTHER
ADDITION TO THE NEWSHOUR
BOOKSHELF.
BOOKSHELF. FERGUSON,
BALTIMORE, CHARLESTON.
FERGUSON, BALTIMORE,
CHARLESTON. JUST THREE OF THE
ROLL CALL OF
JUST THREE OF THE ROLL CALL
OF AMERICAN CITIES WHERE
DEADLY
AMERICAN CITIES WHERE DEADLY
VIOLENCE HAS BEEN DIRECTED
AGAINST BLACK CITIZENS THIS
AGAINST BLACK
CITIZENS THIS YEAR.
YEAR. IT'S AN ISSUE
CONFRONTED HEAD ON
IT'S AN ISSUE CONFRONTED HEAD
ON BY ATLANTIC MAGAZINE
COLUMNIST
BY ATLANTIC MAGAZINE
COLUMNIST TA-NEHISI COATES
TA-NEHISI COATES IN HIS
NEWEST BOOK, "BETWEEN THE
IN HIS NEWEST BOOK,
"BETWEEN THE WORLD AND ME."
WORLD AND ME." HE TALKED
RECENTLY WITH HARI
HE TALKED RECENTLY WITH HARI
SREENIVASAN IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS."IN AMERICA, IT IS
TRADN
TRADN TOLL DESTROY THE BLACK
BODY.
TOLL DESTROY THE BLACK
BODY. IT IS HERITAGE.
IT IS HERITAGE.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
>> THAT'S A STATEMENT OF
HISTORY.
HISTORY. THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN PRESENCE IN
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN PRESENCE
IN THIS COUNTRY BEGINS ROUGHLY
BY
THIS COUNTRY BEGINS ROUGHLY
BY THE TIME THIS COUNTRY'S
DEEP
THE TIME THIS COUNTRY'S
DEEP HISTORY BEGAN, 1619.
HISTORY BEGAN, 1619. AFTER
THAT, WE HAD 250 YEARS OF
AFTER THAT, WE HAD 250
YEARS OF ENSLAVEMENT.
ENSLAVEMENT. AFTER THAT,
WE HAD 100 YEARS OF
AFTER THAT, WE HAD 100
YEARS OF JIM CROW.
JIM CROW. JIM CROW
WAS ENFORCED THROUGH
JIM CROW WAS ENFORCED THROUGH
VIOLENCE, THROUGH DESTRUCTION
OF
OF BLACK BODIES, LYNCHING,
MASS
BLACK BODIES, LYNCHING, MASS
MURDER AND TERRORISM, UP
UNTIL
MURDER AND TERRORISM,
UP UNTIL THIS VERY DAY.
THIS VERY DAY. WE'RE IN
THIS ERA NOW WHERE WE
WE'RE IN THIS ERA NOW WHERE
WE HAVE POLICE FORCES, YOU
KNOW,
HAVE POLICE FORCES, YOU KNOW,
WHO ARE IN OUR COMMUNITIES
AND
AND WE, YOU KNOW, SEEMS LIKE
EVERY
WE, YOU KNOW, SEEMS LIKE
EVERY WEEK GET A SHOOTING OR
SOMEBODY
WEEK GET A SHOOTING OR
SOMEBODY BEATEN UP OR SOMEBODY
AS WITH
BEATEN UP OR SOMEBODY AS WITH
SANDRA BLAND, SOMEBODY WHO
DIES
DIES UNDER MYSTERIOUS
CIRCUMSTANCES,
UNDER MYSTERIOUS
CIRCUMSTANCES, AND WE ACCEPT
THIS IN A NORMAL
AND WE ACCEPT THIS IN A
NORMAL WAY OF DOING
BUSINESS.
WAY OF DOING BUSINESS. WE
THINK THAT IT IS OKAY TO
HAVE
WE THINK THAT IT IS OKAY TO
HAVE THE WORLD'S LARGEST
PRISON
THE WORLD'S LARGEST PRISON
POPULATION, AND WE THINK
IT'S
POPULATION, AND WE THINK IT'S
OKAY THAT ONE PARTICULAR
ETHNIC
ETHNIC GROUP IS MORE IN THAT
GROUP IS MORE IN THAT
POPULATION, PRISONS ARE
VIOLENT,
VIOLENT, INCARCERATION IS
VIOLENT, BODIES
INCARCERATION IS VIOLENT,
BODIES ARE DESTROYED IN
PRISON.
ARE DESTROYED IN PRISON.
THERE'S NO WAY TO GET AROUND
IT.
IT. >> Reporter: YOU WRITE THIS
AS
>> Reporter: YOU WRITE THIS
AS A LETTER TO YOUR 14-YEAR-OLD
SON
A LETTER TO YOUR 14-YEAR-OLD
SON ALMOST AS A GUIDE TO FIGURE
OUT
ALMOST AS A GUIDE TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO PROTECT HIS BODY.
HOW TO PROTECT HIS BODY.
YOU HAD A PASSAGE WHERE HE
WAITED UP FOR THE DECISION
ON
WAITED UP FOR THE DECISION ON
THE MICHAEL BROWN CASE AND
HE
THE MICHAEL BROWN CASE AND HE
WENT TO HIS ROOM AND STARTED
WENT TO HIS ROOM AND
STARTED CRYING.
CRYING. WHAT'S
INTERESTING IS YOUR
WHAT'S INTERESTING IS YOUR
RESPONSE WASN'T TO TELL HIM
IT
RESPONSE WASN'T TO TELL
HIM IT WOULD BE OKAY.
WOULD BE OKAY.
WHAT DID YOU SAY?
WHAT DID YOU SAY? >> I
TOLD HIM IT WON'T BE OKAY.
>> I TOLD HIM IT WON'T BE
OKAY. I SAID, THIS IS WHAT IT
IS.
I SAID, THIS IS WHAT IT
IS. THIS IS YOUR COUNTRY.
THIS IS YOUR COUNTRY. YOU,
FRANKLY, HAVE TO GET USED
YOU, FRANKLY, HAVE TO GET
USED TO A LOT MORE OF THIS AND
YOU
TO A LOT MORE OF THIS AND YOU
HAVE TO FIGURE OUT HOW
YOU'RE
YOU'RE GOING TO LIVE.
GOING TO LIVE.
THAT'S YOUR CHARGE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE AN
AMAZON BEST SELLER.
THAT'S POSITIVE.
THAT'S POSITIVE. WERE
YOU EXPECTING NEGATIVE
WERE YOU EXPECTING
NEGATIVE PUSHBACK AS WELL?
PUSHBACK AS WELL?
>> NOT LIKE I'VE GOT.
>> NOT LIKE I'VE GOT. AS
A WRITER, I WAS THINKING
AS A WRITER, I WAS THINKING
ABOUT I JUST WANTED IT TO
WORK.
WORK. SOMEHOW, I WAS NOT
PREPARED IT
SOMEHOW, I WAS NOT PREPARED
IT REQUIRED ME TO SHIFT AWAY
FROM
REQUIRED ME TO SHIFT AWAY
FROM THE INTERNAL PROCESS OF A
WRITER
THE INTERNAL PROCESS OF A
WRITER AND EXAMINE THINGS
EXTERNALLY.
AND EXAMINE THINGS
EXTERNALLY. >> Sreenivasan:
DAVID BROOKS
>> Sreenivasan: DAVID BROOKS
WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
CRITIQUES
CRITIQUES THAT CAME OUT AND HE
SAID YOU
THAT CAME OUT AND HE SAID YOU
DISTORT HISTORY, THAT IT'S
UNFAIR TO LOOK AT AMERICA
THROUGH JUST THE LENS OF
VIOLENCE, THAT FOR EVERY
KKK,
VIOLENCE, THAT FOR EVERY KKK,
THERE IS A HARLEM SCHOOL
ZONE,
ZONE, THAT THE AMERICAN DREAM IS
WHAT
THAT THE AMERICAN DREAM IS
WHAT BINDS PEOPLE ACROSS RACE,
ACROSS
BINDS PEOPLE ACROSS RACE,
ACROSS CASTE AND CLASS.
CASTE AND CLASS. >> WELL,
YOU KNOW, I APPRECIATE
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I
APPRECIATE DAVID ACTUALLY
READING THE BOOK
DAVID ACTUALLY READING THE
BOOK AND HIM ENGAGING IN THE
BOOK AND
AND HIM ENGAGING IN THE BOOK
AND WRITING A COLUMN ABOUT THAT,
NOT
WRITING A COLUMN ABOUT THAT,
NOT JUST SORT OF IGNORING
IT.
JUST SORT OF IGNORING IT. BUT
I STRONGLY DISAGREE WITH
BUT I STRONGLY
DISAGREE WITH THAT.
THAT. THE HARLEM
CHILDREN'S ZONE IS A
THE HARLEM CHILDREN'S ZONE
IS A FAIRLY NEW THING.
FAIRLY NEW THING. THERE
ISN'T ONE AT A FAIRLY
THERE ISN'T ONE AT A FAIRLY
UNIQUE LEVEL IN THE
INVESTMENTS
INVESTMENTS OF LIVES OF
YOUNG
BLACK PEOPLE. ACROSS TIME,
THE KU KLUX KLAN IS
ACROSS TIME, THE KU KLUX KLAN
IS THE MOST LETHAL DOMESTIC
THE MOST LETHAL DOMESTIC
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION IN
HISTORY.
THAT'S WHAT THEY ARE.
THAT'S WHAT THEY ARE. THEY
HAVE MARKED OUR HISTORY FOR
THEY HAVE MARKED OUR HISTORY
FOR THE PAST 150 YEARS.
THE PAST 150 YEARS. I BELIEVE
THE HARLEM CHILDREN'S
I BELIEVE THE HARLEM
CHILDREN'S IS ONLY ABOUT TEN OR
15 YEARS
IS ONLY ABOUT TEN
OR 15 YEARS OLD.
OLD. I DON'T THINK
THAT COMPARISON
I DON'T THINK THAT
COMPARISON WORKS.
WORKS.
FOR EVERY JEFFERSON DAVIS
THERE'S AN ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
NO, ABRAHAM LINCOLN WAS
SINGULAR.
SINGULAR. HE MADE A
STAND AGAINST WHITE
HE MADE A STAND AGAINST
WHITE SPREMSY.
SPREMSY. THERE'S NOT
ANOTHER PRESIDENT AS
THERE'S NOT ANOTHER PRESIDENT
AS PROGRESSIVE THAT MADE THAT
STAND
PROGRESSIVE THAT MADE THAT
STAND FOR PROBABLY ANOTHER
HUNDRED
FOR PROBABLY ANOTHER HUNDRED
YEARS, DILLS REGARDING
ULYSSES
ULYSSES S. GRANT.
S. GRANT. JEFFERSON
DAVIS IS QUITE NORMAL,
JEFFERSON DAVIS IS QUITE
NORMAL, REGRETLY, ACROSS
AMERICAN
REGRETLY, ACROSS AMERICAN
HISTORY.
SO I DISAGREE WITH THAT.
SO I DISAGREE WITH THAT. >>
Sreenivasan: AT WHAT POINT
>> Sreenivasan: AT WHAT POINT
DOES PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
PLAY INTO THIS?
>> I AM FOR PERSONAL
RESPONSIBILITY.
RESPONSIBILITY. I THINK
THERE'S PLENTY EXHIBITED
I THINK THERE'S PLENTY
EXHIBITED BY BLACK PEOPLE ACROSS
HISTORY.
BY BLACK PEOPLE ACROSS
HISTORY. WE'RE ABOUT AS
RESPONSIBLE AS
WE'RE ABOUT AS RESPONSIBLE
AS EVERYBODY ELSE.
EVERYBODY ELSE. IT'S THE
WEIGHT ON OUR SHOULDERS
IT'S THE WEIGHT ON OUR
SHOULDERS IS WHAT'S ACTUALLY
DIFFERENT.
IS WHAT'S ACTUALLY DIFFERENT.
WE HAVE THE WEIGHT AND BURDEN
OF
WE HAVE THE WEIGHT AND
BURDEN OF HISTORY.
HISTORY. HOW LONG ARE
WE CONTENT TO HAVE
HOW LONG ARE WE CONTENT TO
HAVE SANDRA BLAND, A SITUATION
IN
SANDRA BLAND, A SITUATION IN
WHICH SHE WAS STOPPED FOR
FAILING TO SIGNAL FOR A
TURN.
FAILING TO SIGNAL FOR A TURN.
HOW LONG ARE WE OKAY WITH
FREDDIE GRAY BASICALLY DYING
FOR
FOR LIVING IN THE WRONG
LIVING IN THE WRONG
NEIGHBORHOOD?
I CAN'T BE OKAY WITH IT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
POSSIBILITY IN THE FUTURE?
LET'S SAY YOU GET THIS, YOU
READ
READ THE BOOK, YOU UNDERSTAND
IT, YOU
THE BOOK, YOU UNDERSTAND IT,
YOU BECOME AT SOME LEVEL MORE
AWARE.
BECOME AT SOME LEVEL MORE
AWARE. >> IT'S HUMILITY.
>> IT'S HUMILITY.
I DON'T THINK AMERICA IS
ESPECIALLY BAD.
ESPECIALLY BAD. THERE'S
NO COUNTRY I EXPECT TO
THERE'S NO COUNTRY I EXPECT
TO GO TO AND FIND PEOPLE WHO
ARE
GO TO AND FIND PEOPLE WHO ARE
SOMEHOW BETTER, WHERE WE
DON'T
DON'T HAVE TO BE A WORLD WHERE
WE LOOK
HAVE TO BE A WORLD WHERE WE
LOOK OUT IN WEST BALTIMORE AND
SEE
OUT IN WEST BALTIMORE AND SEE
SOMEONE BURN DOWN A CVS AND
ARE
ARE SHOCKED THAT HAPPEN AND
IT
SHOCKED THAT HAPPEN AND IT
SPRANG OUT OF NOWHERE, WHERE
WE
WE SEE PEOPLE ON THE STREETS
OF
SEE PEOPLE ON THE STREETS OF
FERGUSON WHO ARE TOTALLY
UPSET
UPSET AND TAKES THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT
AND TAKES THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT REPORT TO REALIZE THE
GOVERNMENT
REPORT TO REALIZE THE
GOVERNMENT WAS BASICALLY
PLUNDERING THOSE
WAS BASICALLY PLUNDERING
THOSE PEOPLE.
PEOPLE. >> Sreenivasan:
WHY DO YOU
>> Sreenivasan: WHY DO YOU
THINK THIS IS HAPPENING,
THIS
THINK THIS IS HAPPENING, THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT RACE IN
CONVERSATION ABOUT
RACE IN AMERICA TODAY?
AMERICA TODAY?
IT'S BEEN ON THE BACKS OF
TRAGEDY AFTER TRAGEDY AFTER
TRAGEDY AFTER TRAGEDY
AFTER TRAGEDY A, RIGHT?
TRAGEDY A, RIGHT? >> TWO
THINGS ARE HAPPENING, ONE
>> TWO THINGS ARE HAPPENING,
ONE THING, DURING THE CIVIL
RIGHTS
THING, DURING THE CIVIL
RIGHTS MOVEMENT, THERE WAS A
MOVEMENT, THERE WAS A
TECHNOLOGICAL LEAP.
TECHNOLOGICAL LEAP. THE KIND
OF VIOLENCE YOU SAW WAS
THE KIND OF VIOLENCE YOU SAW
WAS NOT TYPICALLY REMARKABLE
IN
NOT TYPICALLY REMARKABLE IN
HISTORY FOR BLACK PEOPLE.
HISTORY FOR BLACK PEOPLE. THE
NEWS CAMERAS WERE THERE TO
THE NEWS CAMERAS WERE THERE
TO CARRY IT ACROSS THE WORLD ALL
OF
CARRY IT ACROSS THE
WORLD ALL OF A SUDDEN.
A SUDDEN. YOU HAVE
THE REVOLUTION OF
YOU HAVE THE REVOLUTION
OF CAMERAS EVERYWHERE.
CAMERAS EVERYWHERE. PEOPLE
HAVING THE ABILITY TO
PEOPLE HAVING THE ABILITY TO
SHOW PEOPLE A POLICE OFFICER
SHOOTING WALTER SCOTT IN THE
SHOOTING WALTER
SCOTT IN THE BACK.
BACK. THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
PRESIDENT,
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
PRESIDENT, HAVING THE LEADER OF
THE FREE
HAVING THE LEADER OF THE
FREE WORLD BE BLACK.
WORLD BE BLACK. THE
PRESIDENT HAS BEEN CALLED
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN CALLED
UPON TO RESPOND TO THIS
STUFF
UPON TO RESPOND TO THIS STUFF
AND THERE'S BEEN SO MUCH THAT
AS
AS AN AFRICAN-AMERICAN HE
WOULD
AN AFRICAN-AMERICAN HE WOULD
RESPOND AND HAVE MORE INSIGHT
IN
IN THE WAY SOMEONE ELSE
WOULDN'T
THE WAY SOMEONE ELSE WOULDN'T
AND THAT RAMPED UP
EVERYTHING.
EVERYTHING. >> Sreenivasan:
"BETWEEN THE
>> Sreenivasan: "BETWEEN
THE WORLD AND ME."
WORLD AND ME."
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: NOW, ANOTHER IN A
SERIES OF INTERVIEWS WE'RE
CALLING BRIEF BUT
SPECTACULAR.
SPECTACULAR. TONIGHT WE HEAR
FROM ALICE
TONIGHT WE HEAR FROM ALICE
WATERS, THE CHEF AND OWNER
OF
OF THE FAMED CHEZ PANISSE
THE FAMED CHEZ PANISSE
RESTAURANT IN BERKELEY,
CALIFORNIA.
CALIFORNIA. SHE'S A
PIONEER IN THE MOVEMENT
SHE'S A PIONEER IN THE
MOVEMENT FOR A FOOD ECONOMY THAT
SHE SAYS
FOR A FOOD ECONOMY THAT SHE
SAYS CAN BE GOOD, CLEAN AND
FAIR.
CAN BE GOOD, CLEAN AND FAIR.
HERE, WATERS TALKS ABOUT THE
BENEFITS OF WORKING IN THE
KITCHEN, AND HOW TO INSPIRE
YOUNG PEOPLE TO GROW AND
COOK
COOK THEIR OWN FOOD.
THEIR OWN FOOD. WHEN
YOU EAT FAST FOOD, YOU
WHEN YOU EAT FAST FOOD, YOU
NOT ONLY EAT THE FOOD THAT
IS
NOT ONLY EAT THE FOOD THAT IS
UNHEALTHY FOR YOU, BUT YOU
DIGEST THE VALUE THAT COMES
WITH
DIGEST THE VALUE THAT
COMES WITH THAT FOOD.
THAT FOOD. THEY'RE
REALLY ABOUT FAST, CHEAP
THEY'RE REALLY ABOUT
FAST, CHEAP AND EASY.
>> IT'S SO IMPORTANT THAT WE
UNDERSTAND THAT THINGS CAN
BE
UNDERSTAND THAT THINGS CAN BE
AFFORDABLE BUT THEY CAN NEVER
BE
BE CHEAP, BECAUSE IF THEY'RE
CHEAP,
CHEAP, BECAUSE IF THEY'RE
CHEAP, SOMEBODY'S MISSING
OUT.
SOMEBODY'S MISSING OUT. THE
FAST FOOD CULTURE TELLS US
THE FAST FOOD CULTURE TELLS
US THAT, YOU KNOW, COOKING IS
NOT
THAT, YOU KNOW, COOKING IS
NOT SOMETHING IMPORTANT, AND IT
CAN
SOMETHING IMPORTANT, AND IT
CAN BE IN THE BASEMENT, IT CAN
BE IN
BE IN THE BASEMENT, IT CAN BE
IN THE BACK, WHEN, IN FACT,
IT'S
THE BACK, WHEN, IN FACT, IT'S
THE MOST IMPORTANT WORK THAT
WE
THE MOST IMPORTANT
WORK THAT WE DO.
DO.
>> DO.
>> DO. I THINK IT
IS THE UNREALISTIC
I THINK IT IS THE UNREALISTIC
VALUE OF A FAST FOOD CULTURE
THAT ARE REALLY MAKING US
VERY
VERY UNHAPPY, THAT WE'RE ALL
GOING A
UNHAPPY, THAT WE'RE ALL
GOING A LITTLE CRAZY.
LITTLE CRAZY. WE SPEND
AS MUCH SEARCHING FOR
WE SPEND AS MUCH SEARCHING
FOR OUR CELL PHONE THAN WE
DO
OUR CELL PHONE THAN WE DO
PREPARING A MEAL.
PREPARING A MEAL. I THINK
THAT THE VERY BEST WAY
I THINK THAT THE VERY BEST
WAY TO TEACH SLOW-FOOD VALUES IN
A
TO TEACH SLOW-FOOD VALUES IN
A FAST-FOOD CULTURE IS
THROUGH
FAST-FOOD CULTURE IS
THROUGH EDIBLE EDUCATION.
EDIBLE EDUCATION. SO I
CREATED A PROJECT CALLED
SO I CREATED A PROJECT CALLED
THE EDIBLE SCHOOL YARD.
THE EDIBLE SCHOOL YARD. OUR
PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM IS OUR
OUR PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM IS
OUR LAST TRULY DEMOCRATIC
LAST TRULY DEMOCRATIC
INSTITUTION.
INSTITUTION. IT'S THE
ONE PLACE WHERE WE CAN
IT'S THE ONE PLACE WHERE
WE CAN REACH EVERY CHILD.
REACH EVERY CHILD. THE IDEA
IS TO BRING THEM INTO A
THE IDEA IS TO BRING THEM
INTO A NEW RELATIONSHIP TO FOOD
AND
NEW RELATIONSHIP TO FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE, AND THEY'RE
LEARNING ABOUT HISTORY OF A
FOREIGN COUNTRY, AND THEY'RE
COOKING THE FOOD OF THAT
PLACE.
PLACE. PROBABLY THE GREATEST
LESSON
PROBABLY THE GREATEST LESSON
I'VE LEARNED FROM THE EDIBLE
SCHOOLYARD PROJECT IS THAT,
WHEN
WHEN CHILDREN GROW FOOD AND THEY
COOK
CHILDREN GROW FOOD AND THEY
COOK IT, THEY ALL WANT TO EAT
IT.
IT, THEY ALL WANT TO EAT IT.
I'M ALICE WATERS, AND THIS IS
MY
MY BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR TAKE
ON
BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR
TAKE ON EDIBLE EDUCATION.
EDIBLE EDUCATION. >>
Woodruff: AND YOU CAN SEE
>> Woodruff: AND
YOU CAN SEE M
M >> Woodruff:
YOU CAN SEE MORE
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE MORE
"BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR"
TAKES
"BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR" TAKES
ON: BREAKING BARRIERS,
RACISM,
RACISM, POETRY, AND MORE.
POETRY, AND MORE.
THOSE ARE ON OUR WEBSITE,
pbs.org/newshour.
pbs.org/newshour. >> Ifill:
FINALLY TONIGHT, OUR
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
OUR "NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE
DAY.
"NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR
EYE
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST
TO
WHICH MIGHT BE OF
INTEREST TO YOU, TOO.
YOU, TOO.
HERE'S A LOOK:
HERE'S A LOOK: 11-YEAR-OLD
LOGAN FAIRBANKS OF
11-YEAR-OLD LOGAN FAIRBANKS
OF MICHIGAN IS HAVING A BLAST
IN
MICHIGAN IS HAVING A BLAST IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. THIS WEEK
TOURING THE MON NENTSMENTS,
GETTING VIP TREATMENT AT
RESTAURANTS, EVEN A VISIT TO
THE
RESTAURANTS, EVEN A VISIT
TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
WHITE HOUSE.
>> SCHOOL.
I HOPE THAT HE DOES --
I HOPE THAT HE DOES -- >>
Ifill: IT HAPPENED AFTER
>> Ifill: IT HAPPENED AFTER
GAN LOREAD AN INTERNET
COMMENT
COMMENT PEOPLE POSTED ABILITY
HIM ON THE
PEOPLE POSTED ABILITY
HIM ON THE VIDEO.
VIDEO. >> I HOPE
PEOPLE DON'T BULLY
>> I HOPE PEOPLE DON'T BULLY
OTHER PEOPLE ONLINE ANYMORE
AND
AND THAT THIS HELPS.
THAT THIS HELPS. >>
Ifill: IT WENT VIRAL AND
>> Ifill: IT WENT VIRAL AND
CAUGHT THE EYE OF SENIOR
WHITE
WHITE HOUSE ADVISOR VALERIE
JARRETT
HOUSE ADVISOR VALERIE JARRETT
WHO TWEETED WITH LOGAN TO
STOP
STOP BY THE WHITE HOUSE IF HE
WAS
BY THE WHITE HOUSE IF HE
WAS EVER IN WASHINGTON.
EVER IN WASHINGTON. HE
TOOK HER UP ON THAT OFFER.
HE TOOK HER UP ON THAT OFFER.
WE CAUGHT UP WITH HIM IN
CONGRESSMAN FRED UPTON'S
OFFICE
OFFICE TO ASK HIM HOW IT
WENT.
TO ASK HIM HOW IT WENT. >>
I REALLY CAN'T EXPLAIN IT.
>> I REALLY CAN'T
EXPLAIN IT. HAPPY.
HAPPY. I WAS HAPPY
THAT I GOT TO GO
I WAS HAPPY THAT I GOT TO GO
THERE, BUT I ALWAYS KNOW THAT
I
I DIDN'T MAKE THE VIDEO FOR
THE
DIDN'T MAKE THE VIDEO
FOR THE AWARDS.
AWARDS. I MADE IT
FOR THE MESSAGES.
I MADE IT FOR THE MESSAGES.
>> Ifill: THE MESSAGE, STOP
CYBER BULLYING, AND HE WANTS
THAT TO GO VIRAL, TOO.
THAT TO GO VIRAL, TOO. YOU
CAN LEARN MORE ABOUT "TAKE
YOU CAN LEARN MORE ABOUT
"TAKE THE POWER," AN
ANTI-BULLYING
THE POWER," AN ANTI-BULLYING
INITIATIVE THAT LOGAN
STTEDAR
INITIATIVE THAT LOGAN STTEDAR
WITH HIS FATHER, ONLINE, AT
WITH HIS FATHER, ONLINE,
AT takethepower.org.
takethepower.org. >>
Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, IN ANTICIPATION OF
THE
THE RELEASE OF A LONG-LOST DR.
SEUSS
RELEASE OF A LONG-LOST DR.
SEUSS MANUSCRIPT NEXT WEEK,
WE
MANUSCRIPT NEXT WEEK, WE
COMPILED A LIST OF EIGHT
THINGS
THINGS YOU PROBABLY DIDN'T KNOW
ABOUT
YOU PROBABLY DIDN'T KNOW
ABOUT THE "GREEN EGGS AND HAM"
WRITER.
THE "GREEN EGGS AND HAM"
WRITER. FOR EXAMPLE, DID YOU
KNOW HE
FOR EXAMPLE, DID YOU KNOW HE
WROTE THAT BOOK ON A BET?
READ ABOUT THAT, AND SEVEN
OTHER
OTHER FACTS, ON OUR HOME
PAGE,
FACTS, ON OUR HOME PAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
pbs.org/newshour. >>
Ifill: LATER THIS EVENING,
>> Ifill: LATER THIS EVENING,
TUNE IN TO CHARLIE ROSE, FOR
HIS
HIS CONVERSATION WITH NEW YORK
TIMES
CONVERSATION WITH NEW YORK
TIMES COLUMNIST TOM FRIEDMAN ON
THE
COLUMNIST TOM FRIEDMAN ON
THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL. >>
Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S
THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT. ON
FRIDAY, WE'LL TALK WITH
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL TALK WITH
COMEDIAN AZIZ ANSARI ABOUT
HIS
HIS I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. >>
Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH
MARK
TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.